{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Angelic Orchids Lower Mall, Bon Accord Shopping Centre, George Street, Aberdeen AB25 1HZ, 0870 803 2535 angelicorchids.com Angelic Orchids specialises in Japanese products; its flower cages - bamboo rods arranged to hold up flowers - were commended at the Gift of the Year Awards 2007. The shop also sells Japanese-style Kokeshi, Momiji, Water Lily and Lucky Cats figurines as well as kimonos, origami paper and cards.Concrete Wardrobe 50a Broughton Street, Edinburgh EH1 3SA, 0131-558 7130 concretewardrobe.co.uk Concrete Wardrobe has merged its fashion and homeware elements; on the interiors side, it now mixes the work of Scottish designers with vintage furniture and accessories such as Nils Thorsson 70s ceramics. The modern stock includes Edinburgh-based designer Christine Centmayr's wooden stools, colourful glass tumblers from I-glass and a range of recycled polypropylene products from Scottish company Blue Marmalade, as well as other glass, ceramics and textiles products, most created in small batches only.Designshop Edinburgh 116-120 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-667 7078 designshopuk.com DesignShop was founded by architect Patrick Haddad six years ago and specialises in showcasing by designers from all over the world. As well as stocking products from big companies such as Kartell, the shop offers items from young, up and coming designers. The team of on-staff designers, including Haddad himself, is in the process of creating a range of outdoor fibreglass furniture; they can also design bespoke blinds, curtains and furniture.Emma Bridgewater 28a Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6JN, 0131-556 9781 emmabridgewater.co.uk See London listingsInhouse Online 28 Howe Street, Edinburgh EH3 6TG, 0845-222 0375 inhouse-uk.com Inhouse was established by ex-architect Bill Potter and his wife Sylvia after they relocated from London 25 years ago. Stock includes a wide range by producers from all over the world, including Flos and Zanotta, and contemporary accessories by designers such as Alessi. Services include a wedding list, storage design, installation and a full interior design service. Inhouse also presents the annual Design Exhibition at Edinburgh Festival. Lupe Go Lightly 657 Great Western Road, Glasgow G12 8RE, 0141-341 0687 lupegolightly.com Mother and daughter Lee and Jay McLean combined a clothing and an interiors shop to create Lupe Go Lightly, which stocks interiors items ranging from soft furnishings to designer furniture and home accessories from the likes of Koziol and Present Time. Unusual products include Urban Gnomes by Vitamin: a modern alternative to the much-mocked garden gnome. There's Tatty Devine jewellery as well as the Mcleans' own clothing range.Moleta Munro 4 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DT, 0131-577 4800 moletamunro.com Husband and wife Justin and Juliette Baddon focus on the kind of contemporary design found in their native London. With backgrounds in fashion design and design agency, the Baddons have picked out their favourite designers, mainly from Britain and Scandinavia. These include Michelle Mason, People Will Always Need Plates, Thorsten Van Elten and Muuto. Timorous Beasties 384 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9HT, 0141-337 2622 timorousbeasties.com See London listings", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Design: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Angelic Orchids Lower Mall, Bon Accord Shopping Centre, George Street, Aberdeen AB25 1HZ, 0870 803 2535 angelicorchids.com Angelic Orchids specialises in Japanese products; its flower cages - bamboo rods arranged to hold up flowers - were commended at the Gift of the Year Awards 2007. The shop also sells Japanese-style Kokeshi, Momiji, Water Lily and Lucky Cats figurines as well as kimonos, origami paper and cards.Concrete Wardrobe 50a Broughton Street, Edinburgh EH1 3SA, 0131-558 7130 concretewardrobe.co.uk Concrete Wardrobe has merged its fashion and homeware elements; on the interiors side, it now mixes the work of Scottish designers with vintage furniture and accessories such as Nils Thorsson 70s ceramics. The modern stock includes Edinburgh-based designer Christine Centmayr's wooden stools, colourful glass tumblers from I-glass and a range of recycled polypropylene products from Scottish company Blue Marmalade, as well as other glass, ceramics and textiles products, most created in small batches only.Designshop Edinburgh 116-120 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-667 7078 designshopuk.com DesignShop was founded by architect Patrick Haddad six years ago and specialises in showcasing by designers from all over the world. As well as stocking products from big companies such as Kartell, the shop offers items from young, up and coming designers. The team of on-staff designers, including Haddad himself, is in the process of creating a range of outdoor fibreglass furniture; they can also design bespoke blinds, curtains and furniture.Emma Bridgewater 28a Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6JN, 0131-556 9781 emmabridgewater.co.uk See London listingsInhouse Online 28 Howe Street, Edinburgh EH3 6TG, 0845-222 0375 inhouse-uk.com Inhouse was established by ex-architect Bill Potter and his wife Sylvia after they relocated from London 25 years ago. Stock includes a wide range by producers from all over the world, including Flos and Zanotta, and contemporary accessories by designers such as Alessi. Services include a wedding list, storage design, installation and a full interior design service. Inhouse also presents the annual Design Exhibition at Edinburgh Festival. Lupe Go Lightly 657 Great Western Road, Glasgow G12 8RE, 0141-341 0687 lupegolightly.com Mother and daughter Lee and Jay McLean combined a clothing and an interiors shop to create Lupe Go Lightly, which stocks interiors items ranging from soft furnishings to designer furniture and home accessories from the likes of Koziol and Present Time. Unusual products include Urban Gnomes by Vitamin: a modern alternative to the much-mocked garden gnome. There's Tatty Devine jewellery as well as the Mcleans' own clothing range.Moleta Munro 4 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DT, 0131-577 4800 moletamunro.com Husband and wife Justin and Juliette Baddon focus on the kind of contemporary design found in their native London. With backgrounds in fashion design and design agency, the Baddons have picked out their favourite designers, mainly from Britain and Scandinavia. These include Michelle Mason, People Will Always Need Plates, Thorsten Van Elten and Muuto. Timorous Beasties 384 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9HT, 0141-337 2622 timorousbeasties.com See London listings", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Design: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Callum Walker Interiors  Ruthvenfield Rd, Inveralmond, Perth, Perthshire PH1 3EE, 01738 638822 designer-kitchen.co.uk Callum Walker Interiors specialises in fitted bathrooms, bedrooms, kitchens and home offices. The Perth studio has a selection of fitted room displays on show by the likes of Bauformat, Bulthaup, Loxley and Mark Wilkinson, and deals in appliances from brands like Gaggenau. The business has been around for 35 years.  Diana Forrester 22 North West Circus Place, Stockbridge, Edinburgh EH3 6SX, 0131-225 5877 dianaforrester.co.uk For more than 10 years, Diana Forrester has been sourcing products for the home from around the world. Pieces in her two-storey shop include cupboards, tables, mirrors, clocks, lighting, wall sconces, kitchenware, doormats, birdhouses, and gardening tools and pots. French embroidered shelf edging is also available by the metre.  Hollijon & Phillips 9 Woodside Crescent, Glasgow G3 7UL, 0141-332 1234 hollijonandphillips.com Hollijon & Phillip is located in a three-storey Georgian townhouse; each floor is done up as a different style of home. The loft has been converted into a Manhattan-style apartment with minimalist furniture, timber floors and glass shelves; half the middle floor is filled with modern mocha Italian furniture, while the other half is decorated with a more classic style, all credenzas, gilt mirrors and full-length drapes. The ground floor, meanwhile, is set up as a working kitchen with crockery and cookware on display.  James Stewart & Son  2-10 Woodmarket, Kelso, Roxburghshire TD5 7AY, 01573 224411 stewarts-kelso.co.uk  James Stewart established his tinsmith business in 1886, expanding into ironmongering shortly afterwards; the firm remains in his family to this day. In the 1930s, the business expanded into electrical appliances and now stocks a range of items for the home including saucepans, televisions, fridges, tableware, basketware, lighting and giftware. All appliances come with free delivery and installation; screws, wood tools and hand tools are also available. The electrical department repairs items including washing machines and vacuum cleaners and there's a plumbing and electrician arm that is run from a site 100 yards down the road.  Jonathan Avery  7-15 Church Hill Place, Morningside, Edinburgh EH10 4BE, 0131-447 1000; Sheriff Court Building, 80 Hutcheson Street, Merchant City, Glasgow G1 1SH, 0141-552 1000 jonathanavery.co.uk  A family-run business that's been open since 1993, Jonathan Avery sells high-quality MDF furniture for bedrooms, kitchens, bathrooms and living rooms, all made to order. Mirrors, paints and crockery are also available. All products are manufactured at the company's workshops in the Scottish Borders.  McEwens of Perth  56 St John Street, Perth PH1 5SN, 01738 623444 mcewensofperth.co.uk  This department store, established in 1868, is run by the Bullough family. It has a cookshop selling kitchenware, tableware, electricals, glassware and ceramics and also stocks a selection of soft furnishings ranging from curtains to bedlinens. McEwens also sells clothes and toys.  Miam Miam  125 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4EQ, 0131-221 0037 miam-miam.co.uk  Miam Miam, which means yum yum in French, specialises in products from France for the home, including garden furniture, quilts, cushions and clocks. The shop is geared towards the look of provincial France and brands include Une Histoire Simple, Blanc d'Ivoire, Damask and Roger Lascalles. Toiletries from L'Occitane and Cade and children's pyjamas are also available.  Studio One Furniture  71 Morningside Road, Edinburgh EH10 4AY, 0131-447 2179 studioonefurniture.co.uk  This shop sells wooden furniture made of oak, ash, pine and birch, including tables, beds, chairs, drawers, shelves and cabinets. Brands include Content by Conran and Pinetum. Studio One Furniture also sells nylon beanbags, mattresses from Blindcraft and Dunlopillo, Paul Mountain mirrors, hogla grass footstools, glass bowls, candlestick holders and a range of lights and lampshades.  Tangram  33-37 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DH, 0131-556 6551 tangramfurnishers.co.uk  Founded in 1994, this shop specialises in products by European designers such as Paolo Piva, Antonio Citterio, Bruno Fattorini, Gijs Papavoine, Arne Jacobsen, Ingo Maurer, Tom Dixon and Nani Marquina. There are bright and modern sofas, beds, tables, cabinets, lighting, rugs and fabrics, and products can be made to measure. Tangram also offers an interior design consultancy service, which counts the National War Museum and the National Archives of Scotland as clients.  Tony Walker Interiors  Whitehall Court, 14 Telford Road, Edinburgh EH4 2BD, 0131-343 6151 tonywalker.co.uk  This shop, established in 1973, sells modern furniture, including beds from Interlubke and Cassina, dining tables and chairs from Rolf Benz and Cor, sofas from Ligne Roset and Hitch Mylius and lighting by Artemide and Flos. An interior design consultation service is also available.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: General: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Angelic Orchids Lower Mall, Bon Accord Shopping Centre, George Street, Aberdeen AB25 1HZ, 0870 803 2535 angelicorchids.com Angelic Orchids specialises in Japanese products; its flower cages - bamboo rods arranged to hold up flowers - were commended at the Gift of the Year Awards 2007. The shop also sells Japanese-style Kokeshi, Momiji, Water Lily and Lucky Cats figurines as well as kimonos, origami paper and cards.Concrete Wardrobe 50a Broughton Street, Edinburgh EH1 3SA, 0131-558 7130 concretewardrobe.co.uk Concrete Wardrobe has merged its fashion and homeware elements; on the interiors side, it now mixes the work of Scottish designers with vintage furniture and accessories such as Nils Thorsson 70s ceramics. The modern stock includes Edinburgh-based designer Christine Centmayr's wooden stools, colourful glass tumblers from I-glass and a range of recycled polypropylene products from Scottish company Blue Marmalade, as well as other glass, ceramics and textiles products, most created in small batches only.Designshop Edinburgh 116-120 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-667 7078 designshopuk.com DesignShop was founded by architect Patrick Haddad six years ago and specialises in showcasing by designers from all over the world. As well as stocking products from big companies such as Kartell, the shop offers items from young, up and coming designers. The team of on-staff designers, including Haddad himself, is in the process of creating a range of outdoor fibreglass furniture; they can also design bespoke blinds, curtains and furniture.Emma Bridgewater 28a Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6JN, 0131-556 9781 emmabridgewater.co.uk See London listingsInhouse Online 28 Howe Street, Edinburgh EH3 6TG, 0845-222 0375 inhouse-uk.com Inhouse was established by ex-architect Bill Potter and his wife Sylvia after they relocated from London 25 years ago. Stock includes a wide range by producers from all over the world, including Flos and Zanotta, and contemporary accessories by designers such as Alessi. Services include a wedding list, storage design, installation and a full interior design service. Inhouse also presents the annual Design Exhibition at Edinburgh Festival. Lupe Go Lightly 657 Great Western Road, Glasgow G12 8RE, 0141-341 0687 lupegolightly.com Mother and daughter Lee and Jay McLean combined a clothing and an interiors shop to create Lupe Go Lightly, which stocks interiors items ranging from soft furnishings to designer furniture and home accessories from the likes of Koziol and Present Time. Unusual products include Urban Gnomes by Vitamin: a modern alternative to the much-mocked garden gnome. There's Tatty Devine jewellery as well as the Mcleans' own clothing range.Moleta Munro 4 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DT, 0131-577 4800 moletamunro.com Husband and wife Justin and Juliette Baddon focus on the kind of contemporary design found in their native London. With backgrounds in fashion design and design agency, the Baddons have picked out their favourite designers, mainly from Britain and Scandinavia. These include Michelle Mason, People Will Always Need Plates, Thorsten Van Elten and Muuto. Timorous Beasties 384 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9HT, 0141-337 2622 timorousbeasties.com See London listings", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Design: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Callum Walker Interiors  Ruthvenfield Rd, Inveralmond, Perth, Perthshire PH1 3EE, 01738 638822 designer-kitchen.co.uk Callum Walker Interiors specialises in fitted bathrooms, bedrooms, kitchens and home offices. The Perth studio has a selection of fitted room displays on show by the likes of Bauformat, Bulthaup, Loxley and Mark Wilkinson, and deals in appliances from brands like Gaggenau. The business has been around for 35 years.  Diana Forrester 22 North West Circus Place, Stockbridge, Edinburgh EH3 6SX, 0131-225 5877 dianaforrester.co.uk For more than 10 years, Diana Forrester has been sourcing products for the home from around the world. Pieces in her two-storey shop include cupboards, tables, mirrors, clocks, lighting, wall sconces, kitchenware, doormats, birdhouses, and gardening tools and pots. French embroidered shelf edging is also available by the metre.  Hollijon & Phillips 9 Woodside Crescent, Glasgow G3 7UL, 0141-332 1234 hollijonandphillips.com Hollijon & Phillip is located in a three-storey Georgian townhouse; each floor is done up as a different style of home. The loft has been converted into a Manhattan-style apartment with minimalist furniture, timber floors and glass shelves; half the middle floor is filled with modern mocha Italian furniture, while the other half is decorated with a more classic style, all credenzas, gilt mirrors and full-length drapes. The ground floor, meanwhile, is set up as a working kitchen with crockery and cookware on display.  James Stewart & Son  2-10 Woodmarket, Kelso, Roxburghshire TD5 7AY, 01573 224411 stewarts-kelso.co.uk  James Stewart established his tinsmith business in 1886, expanding into ironmongering shortly afterwards; the firm remains in his family to this day. In the 1930s, the business expanded into electrical appliances and now stocks a range of items for the home including saucepans, televisions, fridges, tableware, basketware, lighting and giftware. All appliances come with free delivery and installation; screws, wood tools and hand tools are also available. The electrical department repairs items including washing machines and vacuum cleaners and there's a plumbing and electrician arm that is run from a site 100 yards down the road.  Jonathan Avery  7-15 Church Hill Place, Morningside, Edinburgh EH10 4BE, 0131-447 1000; Sheriff Court Building, 80 Hutcheson Street, Merchant City, Glasgow G1 1SH, 0141-552 1000 jonathanavery.co.uk  A family-run business that's been open since 1993, Jonathan Avery sells high-quality MDF furniture for bedrooms, kitchens, bathrooms and living rooms, all made to order. Mirrors, paints and crockery are also available. All products are manufactured at the company's workshops in the Scottish Borders.  McEwens of Perth  56 St John Street, Perth PH1 5SN, 01738 623444 mcewensofperth.co.uk  This department store, established in 1868, is run by the Bullough family. It has a cookshop selling kitchenware, tableware, electricals, glassware and ceramics and also stocks a selection of soft furnishings ranging from curtains to bedlinens. McEwens also sells clothes and toys.  Miam Miam  125 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4EQ, 0131-221 0037 miam-miam.co.uk  Miam Miam, which means yum yum in French, specialises in products from France for the home, including garden furniture, quilts, cushions and clocks. The shop is geared towards the look of provincial France and brands include Une Histoire Simple, Blanc d'Ivoire, Damask and Roger Lascalles. Toiletries from L'Occitane and Cade and children's pyjamas are also available.  Studio One Furniture  71 Morningside Road, Edinburgh EH10 4AY, 0131-447 2179 studioonefurniture.co.uk  This shop sells wooden furniture made of oak, ash, pine and birch, including tables, beds, chairs, drawers, shelves and cabinets. Brands include Content by Conran and Pinetum. Studio One Furniture also sells nylon beanbags, mattresses from Blindcraft and Dunlopillo, Paul Mountain mirrors, hogla grass footstools, glass bowls, candlestick holders and a range of lights and lampshades.  Tangram  33-37 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DH, 0131-556 6551 tangramfurnishers.co.uk  Founded in 1994, this shop specialises in products by European designers such as Paolo Piva, Antonio Citterio, Bruno Fattorini, Gijs Papavoine, Arne Jacobsen, Ingo Maurer, Tom Dixon and Nani Marquina. There are bright and modern sofas, beds, tables, cabinets, lighting, rugs and fabrics, and products can be made to measure. Tangram also offers an interior design consultancy service, which counts the National War Museum and the National Archives of Scotland as clients.  Tony Walker Interiors  Whitehall Court, 14 Telford Road, Edinburgh EH4 2BD, 0131-343 6151 tonywalker.co.uk  This shop, established in 1973, sells modern furniture, including beds from Interlubke and Cassina, dining tables and chairs from Rolf Benz and Cor, sofas from Ligne Roset and Hitch Mylius and lighting by Artemide and Flos. An interior design consultation service is also available.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: General: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Broadley Garden Centre  Cawdor Rd, Nairn, Moray IV12 5QU, 01667 452955 This small garden centre, open for 30 years, has been run by the McLaren family for the last 10. Although its collection of garden furniture is small, there are pots of all kinds, and a section dedicated to ornaments such as sundials and statues. Hetland Garden Nursery & Tea Room  Carrutherstown, Dumfries, Dumfriesshire DG1 4JX, 01387 840632 hetlandnursery.co.uk  The centre has been open for 13 years but recently refurbished its showroom. Furniture ranges from small benches to full dining sets. There are water features, pots and ornaments, many of which are displayed in the Old Orchard, a series of secluded gardens.  Mayshade Garden Centre  Mayshade Park, Dalkeith, Midlothian EH22 3LA, 0131-663 1093 mayshade.co.uk  Currently run by the third generation of the Darling family, the centre sells everything from gazebos to paving slabs. Being a former agricultural contractors, it has a landscaping department, but also stocks more decorative items like bird tables, gazebos and pots. There is also garden furniture from brands including Peter Smith, Alexander Rose, Cinnamon Home and Suntime.Primo Pots 314, Morningside Rd, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH10 4QH, 0131-447 5051  This specialist sells everything from handmade Italian terracotta pots, silver zinc pots, in all shapes, sizes and materials: some are suitable for period gardens, some are of modern design and others include self-watering systems. Most of Primo's goods are designed to be used in the garden but many would also work indoors.Sandyholm Garden Centre  Crossford, Carluke, Lanarkshire ML8 5QF, 01555 860205 sandyholmgardencentre.co.uk  Furniture includes benches, sun loungers, tables, chairs and recliners from companies like Nova, Alexander Rose and Westminster Teak. Decorative items include pots and stonewear from around the world, water features, ornaments and statues, plus fencing, gravel and slabs and a large collection of bird tables. Run by the Warnock family, it has been trading for 40 years. ", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Gardens: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Angelic Orchids Lower Mall, Bon Accord Shopping Centre, George Street, Aberdeen AB25 1HZ, 0870 803 2535 angelicorchids.com Angelic Orchids specialises in Japanese products; its flower cages - bamboo rods arranged to hold up flowers - were commended at the Gift of the Year Awards 2007. The shop also sells Japanese-style Kokeshi, Momiji, Water Lily and Lucky Cats figurines as well as kimonos, origami paper and cards.Concrete Wardrobe 50a Broughton Street, Edinburgh EH1 3SA, 0131-558 7130 concretewardrobe.co.uk Concrete Wardrobe has merged its fashion and homeware elements; on the interiors side, it now mixes the work of Scottish designers with vintage furniture and accessories such as Nils Thorsson 70s ceramics. The modern stock includes Edinburgh-based designer Christine Centmayr's wooden stools, colourful glass tumblers from I-glass and a range of recycled polypropylene products from Scottish company Blue Marmalade, as well as other glass, ceramics and textiles products, most created in small batches only.Designshop Edinburgh 116-120 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-667 7078 designshopuk.com DesignShop was founded by architect Patrick Haddad six years ago and specialises in showcasing by designers from all over the world. As well as stocking products from big companies such as Kartell, the shop offers items from young, up and coming designers. The team of on-staff designers, including Haddad himself, is in the process of creating a range of outdoor fibreglass furniture; they can also design bespoke blinds, curtains and furniture.Emma Bridgewater 28a Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6JN, 0131-556 9781 emmabridgewater.co.uk See London listingsInhouse Online 28 Howe Street, Edinburgh EH3 6TG, 0845-222 0375 inhouse-uk.com Inhouse was established by ex-architect Bill Potter and his wife Sylvia after they relocated from London 25 years ago. Stock includes a wide range by producers from all over the world, including Flos and Zanotta, and contemporary accessories by designers such as Alessi. Services include a wedding list, storage design, installation and a full interior design service. Inhouse also presents the annual Design Exhibition at Edinburgh Festival. Lupe Go Lightly 657 Great Western Road, Glasgow G12 8RE, 0141-341 0687 lupegolightly.com Mother and daughter Lee and Jay McLean combined a clothing and an interiors shop to create Lupe Go Lightly, which stocks interiors items ranging from soft furnishings to designer furniture and home accessories from the likes of Koziol and Present Time. Unusual products include Urban Gnomes by Vitamin: a modern alternative to the much-mocked garden gnome. There's Tatty Devine jewellery as well as the Mcleans' own clothing range.Moleta Munro 4 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DT, 0131-577 4800 moletamunro.com Husband and wife Justin and Juliette Baddon focus on the kind of contemporary design found in their native London. With backgrounds in fashion design and design agency, the Baddons have picked out their favourite designers, mainly from Britain and Scandinavia. These include Michelle Mason, People Will Always Need Plates, Thorsten Van Elten and Muuto. Timorous Beasties 384 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9HT, 0141-337 2622 timorousbeasties.com See London listings", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Design: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Callum Walker Interiors  Ruthvenfield Rd, Inveralmond, Perth, Perthshire PH1 3EE, 01738 638822 designer-kitchen.co.uk Callum Walker Interiors specialises in fitted bathrooms, bedrooms, kitchens and home offices. The Perth studio has a selection of fitted room displays on show by the likes of Bauformat, Bulthaup, Loxley and Mark Wilkinson, and deals in appliances from brands like Gaggenau. The business has been around for 35 years.  Diana Forrester 22 North West Circus Place, Stockbridge, Edinburgh EH3 6SX, 0131-225 5877 dianaforrester.co.uk For more than 10 years, Diana Forrester has been sourcing products for the home from around the world. Pieces in her two-storey shop include cupboards, tables, mirrors, clocks, lighting, wall sconces, kitchenware, doormats, birdhouses, and gardening tools and pots. French embroidered shelf edging is also available by the metre.  Hollijon & Phillips 9 Woodside Crescent, Glasgow G3 7UL, 0141-332 1234 hollijonandphillips.com Hollijon & Phillip is located in a three-storey Georgian townhouse; each floor is done up as a different style of home. The loft has been converted into a Manhattan-style apartment with minimalist furniture, timber floors and glass shelves; half the middle floor is filled with modern mocha Italian furniture, while the other half is decorated with a more classic style, all credenzas, gilt mirrors and full-length drapes. The ground floor, meanwhile, is set up as a working kitchen with crockery and cookware on display.  James Stewart & Son  2-10 Woodmarket, Kelso, Roxburghshire TD5 7AY, 01573 224411 stewarts-kelso.co.uk  James Stewart established his tinsmith business in 1886, expanding into ironmongering shortly afterwards; the firm remains in his family to this day. In the 1930s, the business expanded into electrical appliances and now stocks a range of items for the home including saucepans, televisions, fridges, tableware, basketware, lighting and giftware. All appliances come with free delivery and installation; screws, wood tools and hand tools are also available. The electrical department repairs items including washing machines and vacuum cleaners and there's a plumbing and electrician arm that is run from a site 100 yards down the road.  Jonathan Avery  7-15 Church Hill Place, Morningside, Edinburgh EH10 4BE, 0131-447 1000; Sheriff Court Building, 80 Hutcheson Street, Merchant City, Glasgow G1 1SH, 0141-552 1000 jonathanavery.co.uk  A family-run business that's been open since 1993, Jonathan Avery sells high-quality MDF furniture for bedrooms, kitchens, bathrooms and living rooms, all made to order. Mirrors, paints and crockery are also available. All products are manufactured at the company's workshops in the Scottish Borders.  McEwens of Perth  56 St John Street, Perth PH1 5SN, 01738 623444 mcewensofperth.co.uk  This department store, established in 1868, is run by the Bullough family. It has a cookshop selling kitchenware, tableware, electricals, glassware and ceramics and also stocks a selection of soft furnishings ranging from curtains to bedlinens. McEwens also sells clothes and toys.  Miam Miam  125 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4EQ, 0131-221 0037 miam-miam.co.uk  Miam Miam, which means yum yum in French, specialises in products from France for the home, including garden furniture, quilts, cushions and clocks. The shop is geared towards the look of provincial France and brands include Une Histoire Simple, Blanc d'Ivoire, Damask and Roger Lascalles. Toiletries from L'Occitane and Cade and children's pyjamas are also available.  Studio One Furniture  71 Morningside Road, Edinburgh EH10 4AY, 0131-447 2179 studioonefurniture.co.uk  This shop sells wooden furniture made of oak, ash, pine and birch, including tables, beds, chairs, drawers, shelves and cabinets. Brands include Content by Conran and Pinetum. Studio One Furniture also sells nylon beanbags, mattresses from Blindcraft and Dunlopillo, Paul Mountain mirrors, hogla grass footstools, glass bowls, candlestick holders and a range of lights and lampshades.  Tangram  33-37 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DH, 0131-556 6551 tangramfurnishers.co.uk  Founded in 1994, this shop specialises in products by European designers such as Paolo Piva, Antonio Citterio, Bruno Fattorini, Gijs Papavoine, Arne Jacobsen, Ingo Maurer, Tom Dixon and Nani Marquina. There are bright and modern sofas, beds, tables, cabinets, lighting, rugs and fabrics, and products can be made to measure. Tangram also offers an interior design consultancy service, which counts the National War Museum and the National Archives of Scotland as clients.  Tony Walker Interiors  Whitehall Court, 14 Telford Road, Edinburgh EH4 2BD, 0131-343 6151 tonywalker.co.uk  This shop, established in 1973, sells modern furniture, including beds from Interlubke and Cassina, dining tables and chairs from Rolf Benz and Cor, sofas from Ligne Roset and Hitch Mylius and lighting by Artemide and Flos. An interior design consultation service is also available.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: General: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Broadley Garden Centre  Cawdor Rd, Nairn, Moray IV12 5QU, 01667 452955 This small garden centre, open for 30 years, has been run by the McLaren family for the last 10. Although its collection of garden furniture is small, there are pots of all kinds, and a section dedicated to ornaments such as sundials and statues. Hetland Garden Nursery & Tea Room  Carrutherstown, Dumfries, Dumfriesshire DG1 4JX, 01387 840632 hetlandnursery.co.uk  The centre has been open for 13 years but recently refurbished its showroom. Furniture ranges from small benches to full dining sets. There are water features, pots and ornaments, many of which are displayed in the Old Orchard, a series of secluded gardens.  Mayshade Garden Centre  Mayshade Park, Dalkeith, Midlothian EH22 3LA, 0131-663 1093 mayshade.co.uk  Currently run by the third generation of the Darling family, the centre sells everything from gazebos to paving slabs. Being a former agricultural contractors, it has a landscaping department, but also stocks more decorative items like bird tables, gazebos and pots. There is also garden furniture from brands including Peter Smith, Alexander Rose, Cinnamon Home and Suntime.Primo Pots 314, Morningside Rd, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH10 4QH, 0131-447 5051  This specialist sells everything from handmade Italian terracotta pots, silver zinc pots, in all shapes, sizes and materials: some are suitable for period gardens, some are of modern design and others include self-watering systems. Most of Primo's goods are designed to be used in the garden but many would also work indoors.Sandyholm Garden Centre  Crossford, Carluke, Lanarkshire ML8 5QF, 01555 860205 sandyholmgardencentre.co.uk  Furniture includes benches, sun loungers, tables, chairs and recliners from companies like Nova, Alexander Rose and Westminster Teak. Decorative items include pots and stonewear from around the world, water features, ornaments and statues, plus fencing, gravel and slabs and a large collection of bird tables. Run by the Warnock family, it has been trading for 40 years. ", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Gardens: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Mr Purves Lighting Emporium 59 St Stephen St, Edinburgh EH3 5AH, 0131-556 4503 This shop, open since the 1970s, deals exclusively in brass oil lamps and oil lamp parts. Most are recent, although some collectors' items are available. A limited repairs service is also offered. The shop is only open on Saturdays but appointments can be booked at other times.Ottimo 44 Queen St, Edinburgh EH2 3NL, 0131-226 4750 ottimolighting.com Ottimo is a lighting shop and consultancy: it has consulted on buildings such as St Andrews University and Parliament House in Edinburgh. The consultancy is focused on energy efficient lighting: it is currently working on developing a house lit entirely by LEDs.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interior directory: Lighting: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Angelic Orchids Lower Mall, Bon Accord Shopping Centre, George Street, Aberdeen AB25 1HZ, 0870 803 2535 angelicorchids.com Angelic Orchids specialises in Japanese products; its flower cages - bamboo rods arranged to hold up flowers - were commended at the Gift of the Year Awards 2007. The shop also sells Japanese-style Kokeshi, Momiji, Water Lily and Lucky Cats figurines as well as kimonos, origami paper and cards.Concrete Wardrobe 50a Broughton Street, Edinburgh EH1 3SA, 0131-558 7130 concretewardrobe.co.uk Concrete Wardrobe has merged its fashion and homeware elements; on the interiors side, it now mixes the work of Scottish designers with vintage furniture and accessories such as Nils Thorsson 70s ceramics. The modern stock includes Edinburgh-based designer Christine Centmayr's wooden stools, colourful glass tumblers from I-glass and a range of recycled polypropylene products from Scottish company Blue Marmalade, as well as other glass, ceramics and textiles products, most created in small batches only.Designshop Edinburgh 116-120 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-667 7078 designshopuk.com DesignShop was founded by architect Patrick Haddad six years ago and specialises in showcasing by designers from all over the world. As well as stocking products from big companies such as Kartell, the shop offers items from young, up and coming designers. The team of on-staff designers, including Haddad himself, is in the process of creating a range of outdoor fibreglass furniture; they can also design bespoke blinds, curtains and furniture.Emma Bridgewater 28a Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6JN, 0131-556 9781 emmabridgewater.co.uk See London listingsInhouse Online 28 Howe Street, Edinburgh EH3 6TG, 0845-222 0375 inhouse-uk.com Inhouse was established by ex-architect Bill Potter and his wife Sylvia after they relocated from London 25 years ago. Stock includes a wide range by producers from all over the world, including Flos and Zanotta, and contemporary accessories by designers such as Alessi. Services include a wedding list, storage design, installation and a full interior design service. Inhouse also presents the annual Design Exhibition at Edinburgh Festival. Lupe Go Lightly 657 Great Western Road, Glasgow G12 8RE, 0141-341 0687 lupegolightly.com Mother and daughter Lee and Jay McLean combined a clothing and an interiors shop to create Lupe Go Lightly, which stocks interiors items ranging from soft furnishings to designer furniture and home accessories from the likes of Koziol and Present Time. Unusual products include Urban Gnomes by Vitamin: a modern alternative to the much-mocked garden gnome. There's Tatty Devine jewellery as well as the Mcleans' own clothing range.Moleta Munro 4 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DT, 0131-577 4800 moletamunro.com Husband and wife Justin and Juliette Baddon focus on the kind of contemporary design found in their native London. With backgrounds in fashion design and design agency, the Baddons have picked out their favourite designers, mainly from Britain and Scandinavia. These include Michelle Mason, People Will Always Need Plates, Thorsten Van Elten and Muuto. Timorous Beasties 384 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9HT, 0141-337 2622 timorousbeasties.com See London listings", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Design: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Callum Walker Interiors  Ruthvenfield Rd, Inveralmond, Perth, Perthshire PH1 3EE, 01738 638822 designer-kitchen.co.uk Callum Walker Interiors specialises in fitted bathrooms, bedrooms, kitchens and home offices. The Perth studio has a selection of fitted room displays on show by the likes of Bauformat, Bulthaup, Loxley and Mark Wilkinson, and deals in appliances from brands like Gaggenau. The business has been around for 35 years.  Diana Forrester 22 North West Circus Place, Stockbridge, Edinburgh EH3 6SX, 0131-225 5877 dianaforrester.co.uk For more than 10 years, Diana Forrester has been sourcing products for the home from around the world. Pieces in her two-storey shop include cupboards, tables, mirrors, clocks, lighting, wall sconces, kitchenware, doormats, birdhouses, and gardening tools and pots. French embroidered shelf edging is also available by the metre.  Hollijon & Phillips 9 Woodside Crescent, Glasgow G3 7UL, 0141-332 1234 hollijonandphillips.com Hollijon & Phillip is located in a three-storey Georgian townhouse; each floor is done up as a different style of home. The loft has been converted into a Manhattan-style apartment with minimalist furniture, timber floors and glass shelves; half the middle floor is filled with modern mocha Italian furniture, while the other half is decorated with a more classic style, all credenzas, gilt mirrors and full-length drapes. The ground floor, meanwhile, is set up as a working kitchen with crockery and cookware on display.  James Stewart & Son  2-10 Woodmarket, Kelso, Roxburghshire TD5 7AY, 01573 224411 stewarts-kelso.co.uk  James Stewart established his tinsmith business in 1886, expanding into ironmongering shortly afterwards; the firm remains in his family to this day. In the 1930s, the business expanded into electrical appliances and now stocks a range of items for the home including saucepans, televisions, fridges, tableware, basketware, lighting and giftware. All appliances come with free delivery and installation; screws, wood tools and hand tools are also available. The electrical department repairs items including washing machines and vacuum cleaners and there's a plumbing and electrician arm that is run from a site 100 yards down the road.  Jonathan Avery  7-15 Church Hill Place, Morningside, Edinburgh EH10 4BE, 0131-447 1000; Sheriff Court Building, 80 Hutcheson Street, Merchant City, Glasgow G1 1SH, 0141-552 1000 jonathanavery.co.uk  A family-run business that's been open since 1993, Jonathan Avery sells high-quality MDF furniture for bedrooms, kitchens, bathrooms and living rooms, all made to order. Mirrors, paints and crockery are also available. All products are manufactured at the company's workshops in the Scottish Borders.  McEwens of Perth  56 St John Street, Perth PH1 5SN, 01738 623444 mcewensofperth.co.uk  This department store, established in 1868, is run by the Bullough family. It has a cookshop selling kitchenware, tableware, electricals, glassware and ceramics and also stocks a selection of soft furnishings ranging from curtains to bedlinens. McEwens also sells clothes and toys.  Miam Miam  125 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4EQ, 0131-221 0037 miam-miam.co.uk  Miam Miam, which means yum yum in French, specialises in products from France for the home, including garden furniture, quilts, cushions and clocks. The shop is geared towards the look of provincial France and brands include Une Histoire Simple, Blanc d'Ivoire, Damask and Roger Lascalles. Toiletries from L'Occitane and Cade and children's pyjamas are also available.  Studio One Furniture  71 Morningside Road, Edinburgh EH10 4AY, 0131-447 2179 studioonefurniture.co.uk  This shop sells wooden furniture made of oak, ash, pine and birch, including tables, beds, chairs, drawers, shelves and cabinets. Brands include Content by Conran and Pinetum. Studio One Furniture also sells nylon beanbags, mattresses from Blindcraft and Dunlopillo, Paul Mountain mirrors, hogla grass footstools, glass bowls, candlestick holders and a range of lights and lampshades.  Tangram  33-37 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DH, 0131-556 6551 tangramfurnishers.co.uk  Founded in 1994, this shop specialises in products by European designers such as Paolo Piva, Antonio Citterio, Bruno Fattorini, Gijs Papavoine, Arne Jacobsen, Ingo Maurer, Tom Dixon and Nani Marquina. There are bright and modern sofas, beds, tables, cabinets, lighting, rugs and fabrics, and products can be made to measure. Tangram also offers an interior design consultancy service, which counts the National War Museum and the National Archives of Scotland as clients.  Tony Walker Interiors  Whitehall Court, 14 Telford Road, Edinburgh EH4 2BD, 0131-343 6151 tonywalker.co.uk  This shop, established in 1973, sells modern furniture, including beds from Interlubke and Cassina, dining tables and chairs from Rolf Benz and Cor, sofas from Ligne Roset and Hitch Mylius and lighting by Artemide and Flos. An interior design consultation service is also available.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: General: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Broadley Garden Centre  Cawdor Rd, Nairn, Moray IV12 5QU, 01667 452955 This small garden centre, open for 30 years, has been run by the McLaren family for the last 10. Although its collection of garden furniture is small, there are pots of all kinds, and a section dedicated to ornaments such as sundials and statues. Hetland Garden Nursery & Tea Room  Carrutherstown, Dumfries, Dumfriesshire DG1 4JX, 01387 840632 hetlandnursery.co.uk  The centre has been open for 13 years but recently refurbished its showroom. Furniture ranges from small benches to full dining sets. There are water features, pots and ornaments, many of which are displayed in the Old Orchard, a series of secluded gardens.  Mayshade Garden Centre  Mayshade Park, Dalkeith, Midlothian EH22 3LA, 0131-663 1093 mayshade.co.uk  Currently run by the third generation of the Darling family, the centre sells everything from gazebos to paving slabs. Being a former agricultural contractors, it has a landscaping department, but also stocks more decorative items like bird tables, gazebos and pots. There is also garden furniture from brands including Peter Smith, Alexander Rose, Cinnamon Home and Suntime.Primo Pots 314, Morningside Rd, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH10 4QH, 0131-447 5051  This specialist sells everything from handmade Italian terracotta pots, silver zinc pots, in all shapes, sizes and materials: some are suitable for period gardens, some are of modern design and others include self-watering systems. Most of Primo's goods are designed to be used in the garden but many would also work indoors.Sandyholm Garden Centre  Crossford, Carluke, Lanarkshire ML8 5QF, 01555 860205 sandyholmgardencentre.co.uk  Furniture includes benches, sun loungers, tables, chairs and recliners from companies like Nova, Alexander Rose and Westminster Teak. Decorative items include pots and stonewear from around the world, water features, ornaments and statues, plus fencing, gravel and slabs and a large collection of bird tables. Run by the Warnock family, it has been trading for 40 years. ", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Gardens: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Mr Purves Lighting Emporium 59 St Stephen St, Edinburgh EH3 5AH, 0131-556 4503 This shop, open since the 1970s, deals exclusively in brass oil lamps and oil lamp parts. Most are recent, although some collectors' items are available. A limited repairs service is also offered. The shop is only open on Saturdays but appointments can be booked at other times.Ottimo 44 Queen St, Edinburgh EH2 3NL, 0131-226 4750 ottimolighting.com Ottimo is a lighting shop and consultancy: it has consulted on buildings such as St Andrews University and Parliament House in Edinburgh. The consultancy is focused on energy efficient lighting: it is currently working on developing a house lit entirely by LEDs.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interior directory: Lighting: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:09:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Affordable Antiques 108 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-478 3006 This small family-run business sells wardrobes, chests, tables and bookcases, mostly made from stripped or polished pine, oak or mahogany and dating from before 1940.Carson Clark 181-183 Canongate, Edninburgh EH8 8BN, 0131-556 4710 edinburgh-royalmile.com/carson-clark This father-son business, founded in 1969, specialises in original and replica maps and sea charts from the 15th to the 19th century. Carson Clark was originally a professional mapmaker; his son Paul is equally enthused. Maps start at \u00a310 for a replica, rising to \u00a315,000 for a 16th-century sea chart. The Carsons also sell topographical prints, engravings and sketches of cities and landscapes, as well as replica 16th-century Mercator globes.Courtyard Antiques 108A Causeway Edinburgh, EH9 1PU, 0131-662 9008 Stocks a selection of furniture, military apparel, toys, china, costumes and curios dating from the Georgian era to the 60s.Georgian Antiques 10 Pattison Street, Edinburgh EH6 7HF, 0131-553 7286 georgianantiques.net Based in a five-storey listed warehouse building, this large family-owned business stocks an extensive selection of Georgian, Victorian and Edwardian furniture, from dining tables, chair sets and cabinets to sofas, linen presses and clocks, as well as smaller items like ceramics and lamps. There is also a furniture polishing and restoration service on site. Gow Antiques & Restoration Ltd. Pitscandly Farm, Forfar, Angus DD8 3NZ, 01307 465342 knowyourantiques.com Most of the furniture sold here is from the 18th and 19th centuries and comes from western Europe; there is also a selection of Regency and Victorian mirrors. Services include three-day antique furniture recognition courses, restoration in the on-site workshop, valuations and consultations about large collections, investments and flood damage.Iain Marr Antiques 3 Mid Street, Beauly, Inverness-shire, IV4 7DP, 01463 782372 iain-marr-antiques.com Iain and his wife Avril opened this shop in 1975: it specialises in Georgian silver, including plates, candleholders, cutlery and coffee pots, and Victorian silver. In addition to the silver, all of which is English or Scottish, the Marrs stock other small antique goods such as glass, porcelain, clocks, jewellery and paintings from the Victorian era to the present.James Scott Antiques 43 Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6QQ, 0131 556 8260 This shop, which has been run by James Scott for the last 40 years, focuses on smaller items, such as silver plates and brass handles, from various eras. There is a good selection of militaria, including antique weapons and medals. Now and Then 9 West Crosscuseway, Edinburgh EH8 9JW, 0131-668 2927 oldtoysandantiques.co.uk Now and Then has been selling antiques and collectables for 30 years. Stock rages from mechanical office and domestic equipment such as typewriters, sewing machines, pre-war radios and telephones to enamel signs, clockwork trains and Victorian Dinky die-cast cars (priced from \u00a35 to \u00a310,000 for a rare model).Pine and Old Lace 46 Victoria Street, Edinburgh EH1 2JW, 0131-225 3287 Pine and Old Lace has been in business for 30 years. Its shelves are lined with antique linen and lace sourced locally and its inventory includes bedding, tablecloths, napkins, tea cosies and underwear from the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries. The shop also sells dressers and kitchen furniture.The Thrie Estaits 49 Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6RS, 0131-556 7084 thethrieestaits.co.uk This shop stocks unusual decorative knickknacks from Chinese porcelain and 1800s glass rummers (glasses for hot rum toddy) to mirrors, stone and earthenware statues and hatstands. The shop has sold pieces to local hotels including the Witchery. Established in the 1970s, The Thrie Estaits is named after a satirical 16th-century Scottish play.Tim Hardie Antiques and Fine Art The Old Sawmill, Rait Antique Centre, Rait, Perthshire, PH2 7RT, 01821 670760 timhardie.com Tim Hardie has been dealing in antiques for 17 years, although not always in the Rait Antique Centre. His forte is 19th-century Scottish furniture of all kinds, but he also sells a selection of prints and paintings. A restoration service is available on site.Unicorn Antiques 65 Dundas Street, Edinburgh, EH3 6RS, 0131-556 7176 Nancy Duncan established this antiques and junk shop in 1967. The building is a former dairy and her collectables are displayed on the original marble shelves. Duncan sells a mixture of furniture, china, glass, ceramics, cutlery, silver plated items, brass fittings and musical instruments in various styles.Young Antiques 185 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh, EH10 4DG, 0131-229 1361 Young Antiques's stock ranges from large Georgian, Victorian and Edwardian wooden furniture to oriental ceramics. You can pick up Victorian writing desks and sideboards for \u00a3200-\u00a3500 and wardrobes and chests for \u00a3300-\u00a3600.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Antiques: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:14:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I remember when Stuart Murdoch sent me his first demo tape, before anyone had heard of Belle & Sebastian. It was called Rhode Island, and had a pretty boy fairy watercolour by Cicely Mary Barker on its sleeve. It looked a little like Stuart, I always thought.It was January 1996: I was 19, still living at home with my parents and escaping and surviving through music. I had first seen Stuart when I went to a local transvestite bar in Glasgow to listen to Edwyn Collins playing records. Collins was a big hero of mine. I was surprised that the large neon sign above the ladies room read \"Wenches\" and above the men's \"Gladiators\". And the boys were very glamorous. I was even more surprised to meet my elder cousin working as a cloakroom attendant. Stuart was dancing in his clogs to Janet Jackson. A girlfriend of mine thought he was cute. At that point, I wasn't listening to much music recorded past 1969 and was therefore a bit horrified.However, we officially met two weeks later in a toilet queue at Jason from V-twin's New Year's Eve party. We exchanged addresses, and a few days later a letter arrived - and a few days after that, a tape.It was exciting.That winter I'd been specifically entranced by Buffalo Springfield - I Am a Child, Expecting to Fly, Kind Woman, Hung Upside Down. It sounded like something I would have wanted to be a part of, had I been around Laurel Canyon at the time. Up until this point I had mainly championed the indie-schmindie bands of boyfriends and, as the girlfriend, had taken a back seat. I had always wanted to be in a pop group; I just didn't know that I was allowed to be.When I started listening to the songs on Stuart's tape, I could feel goosebumps. Songs like Mary Jo and The State I'm In, which would later appear on Belle & Sebastian's debut record, Tigermilk, sounded to me like they could fit quite nicely on to a Buffalo Springfield record. And that made everything all the more special to me.Then again, for decades, hipsters and musicians and aspiring musicians in and around Glasgow (and in many other places for that matter, I'm sure) have been referencing Buffalo Springfield. There does, though, seem to be a unique, unspoken bond between many Scottish alternative bands and the bands of the west coast of America.The particular Scots music to which I am referring, however, should not be confused with music by the ubiquitous Scottish music mafia that I feel misrepresents us as a nation so badly. I find it extremely nauseating when I'm at home and catch little snippets on regional television, week in, week out. Who likes that shit music anyhow?The music I'm talking about is an altogether more stylish affair. Kurt Cobain named his daughter Frances after the singer Frances McKee who was in one of his favourite bands, the Vaselines, from Bellshill, outside Glasgow. In fact, Nirvana covered several of Eugene Kelly and Francis McKee's songs. (Son of a Gun is perhaps the most famous one.) I remember my friend Colin playing me the Vaselines' Rory Ride Me Raw one evening. Eugene looked so cool on the sleeve with his John Cale haircut and biker boots. All the best bands have the best haircuts. Or at least they used to.I remember one time Jim McCulloch (from the Soup Dragons, also from Bellshill), Eugene and Stephen Pastel (the Pastels are a Glasgow band) telling me about how, in the mid-1980s, everyone used to go the Splash One Club in Glasgow. They said the girls even used to take their knitting. People would dance to Some Velvet Morning by Lee Hazlewood and Nancy Sinatra - I have no idea how folk must've danced to that. Very funny. But Splash One was where the whole west-of-Scotland alternative community formed. Without Splash One, where Bobby Gillespie and others would play Love and the Byrds, there would have been no Creation records, no Jesus and Mary Chain, no Teenage Fanclub.Look at the bands that came out of the Splash One scene, and you can see the empathy with America. Bobby's own band, Primal Scream, cross-fertilised their brand of alternative rock with garage, country, psychedelia, roots and blues. They also had good haircuts. Teenage Fanclub, too, have a huge affinity with the music of the west coast - just listen to their harmonies. Every time I travel across the pond, it is clear how dearly they are loved over there.And now I've completed my sophomore record with Mark Lanegan, from the Pacific north-west; my own personal Scottish-American connection. But that is another tale for another time.But does the existence of so many like-minded musicians in a small part of Scotland mean there's something uniquely Scottish about our music? To be honest, I really don't care about Scottish music - only good music. That is my passion. That is what moves and inspires and heals. And I never feel especially Scottish. I feel more like a citizen of the world. Nor have I ever felt part of any music scene - ever. It has almost always been the opposite. Ask many bands and musicians; if they were frank, I suspect a few of them may say somewhat similar. It may be journalists or authors who create tidy little \"scenes\". Nothing real is so pristine.I have been lucky enough to follow my nose, my heart and my dreams. I have met and continue to meet like-minded people in many magical corners of the globe, it is a good way to live and learn. Music has a language and power that can potentially transcend.I was practising with my dear friend Robyn Hitchcock the other day. He started talking about \"jock rock\". Most jock rock, he said, you can stamp yer foot or march to. All of us in the room were saying that we liked Franz Ferdinand. It's easy to march to the Franz. I asked Robyn, \"How come I'm Scottish and I don't make jock rock music? I'd quite like to, you know.\"I can't remember what he said. I think I must ask him again. \u00b7Sunday at Devil Dirt by Isobel Campbell and Mark Lanegan is released on V2 on May 5", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "State of the Union. Isobel Campbell reflects on the musical tradition of Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Angelic Orchids Lower Mall, Bon Accord Shopping Centre, George Street, Aberdeen AB25 1HZ, 0870 803 2535 angelicorchids.com Angelic Orchids specialises in Japanese products; its flower cages - bamboo rods arranged to hold up flowers - were commended at the Gift of the Year Awards 2007. The shop also sells Japanese-style Kokeshi, Momiji, Water Lily and Lucky Cats figurines as well as kimonos, origami paper and cards.Concrete Wardrobe 50a Broughton Street, Edinburgh EH1 3SA, 0131-558 7130 concretewardrobe.co.uk Concrete Wardrobe has merged its fashion and homeware elements; on the interiors side, it now mixes the work of Scottish designers with vintage furniture and accessories such as Nils Thorsson 70s ceramics. The modern stock includes Edinburgh-based designer Christine Centmayr's wooden stools, colourful glass tumblers from I-glass and a range of recycled polypropylene products from Scottish company Blue Marmalade, as well as other glass, ceramics and textiles products, most created in small batches only.Designshop Edinburgh 116-120 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-667 7078 designshopuk.com DesignShop was founded by architect Patrick Haddad six years ago and specialises in showcasing by designers from all over the world. As well as stocking products from big companies such as Kartell, the shop offers items from young, up and coming designers. The team of on-staff designers, including Haddad himself, is in the process of creating a range of outdoor fibreglass furniture; they can also design bespoke blinds, curtains and furniture.Emma Bridgewater 28a Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6JN, 0131-556 9781 emmabridgewater.co.uk See London listingsInhouse Online 28 Howe Street, Edinburgh EH3 6TG, 0845-222 0375 inhouse-uk.com Inhouse was established by ex-architect Bill Potter and his wife Sylvia after they relocated from London 25 years ago. Stock includes a wide range by producers from all over the world, including Flos and Zanotta, and contemporary accessories by designers such as Alessi. Services include a wedding list, storage design, installation and a full interior design service. Inhouse also presents the annual Design Exhibition at Edinburgh Festival. Lupe Go Lightly 657 Great Western Road, Glasgow G12 8RE, 0141-341 0687 lupegolightly.com Mother and daughter Lee and Jay McLean combined a clothing and an interiors shop to create Lupe Go Lightly, which stocks interiors items ranging from soft furnishings to designer furniture and home accessories from the likes of Koziol and Present Time. Unusual products include Urban Gnomes by Vitamin: a modern alternative to the much-mocked garden gnome. There's Tatty Devine jewellery as well as the Mcleans' own clothing range.Moleta Munro 4 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DT, 0131-577 4800 moletamunro.com Husband and wife Justin and Juliette Baddon focus on the kind of contemporary design found in their native London. With backgrounds in fashion design and design agency, the Baddons have picked out their favourite designers, mainly from Britain and Scandinavia. These include Michelle Mason, People Will Always Need Plates, Thorsten Van Elten and Muuto. Timorous Beasties 384 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9HT, 0141-337 2622 timorousbeasties.com See London listings", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Design: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Callum Walker Interiors  Ruthvenfield Rd, Inveralmond, Perth, Perthshire PH1 3EE, 01738 638822 designer-kitchen.co.uk Callum Walker Interiors specialises in fitted bathrooms, bedrooms, kitchens and home offices. The Perth studio has a selection of fitted room displays on show by the likes of Bauformat, Bulthaup, Loxley and Mark Wilkinson, and deals in appliances from brands like Gaggenau. The business has been around for 35 years.  Diana Forrester 22 North West Circus Place, Stockbridge, Edinburgh EH3 6SX, 0131-225 5877 dianaforrester.co.uk For more than 10 years, Diana Forrester has been sourcing products for the home from around the world. Pieces in her two-storey shop include cupboards, tables, mirrors, clocks, lighting, wall sconces, kitchenware, doormats, birdhouses, and gardening tools and pots. French embroidered shelf edging is also available by the metre.  Hollijon & Phillips 9 Woodside Crescent, Glasgow G3 7UL, 0141-332 1234 hollijonandphillips.com Hollijon & Phillip is located in a three-storey Georgian townhouse; each floor is done up as a different style of home. The loft has been converted into a Manhattan-style apartment with minimalist furniture, timber floors and glass shelves; half the middle floor is filled with modern mocha Italian furniture, while the other half is decorated with a more classic style, all credenzas, gilt mirrors and full-length drapes. The ground floor, meanwhile, is set up as a working kitchen with crockery and cookware on display.  James Stewart & Son  2-10 Woodmarket, Kelso, Roxburghshire TD5 7AY, 01573 224411 stewarts-kelso.co.uk  James Stewart established his tinsmith business in 1886, expanding into ironmongering shortly afterwards; the firm remains in his family to this day. In the 1930s, the business expanded into electrical appliances and now stocks a range of items for the home including saucepans, televisions, fridges, tableware, basketware, lighting and giftware. All appliances come with free delivery and installation; screws, wood tools and hand tools are also available. The electrical department repairs items including washing machines and vacuum cleaners and there's a plumbing and electrician arm that is run from a site 100 yards down the road.  Jonathan Avery  7-15 Church Hill Place, Morningside, Edinburgh EH10 4BE, 0131-447 1000; Sheriff Court Building, 80 Hutcheson Street, Merchant City, Glasgow G1 1SH, 0141-552 1000 jonathanavery.co.uk  A family-run business that's been open since 1993, Jonathan Avery sells high-quality MDF furniture for bedrooms, kitchens, bathrooms and living rooms, all made to order. Mirrors, paints and crockery are also available. All products are manufactured at the company's workshops in the Scottish Borders.  McEwens of Perth  56 St John Street, Perth PH1 5SN, 01738 623444 mcewensofperth.co.uk  This department store, established in 1868, is run by the Bullough family. It has a cookshop selling kitchenware, tableware, electricals, glassware and ceramics and also stocks a selection of soft furnishings ranging from curtains to bedlinens. McEwens also sells clothes and toys.  Miam Miam  125 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4EQ, 0131-221 0037 miam-miam.co.uk  Miam Miam, which means yum yum in French, specialises in products from France for the home, including garden furniture, quilts, cushions and clocks. The shop is geared towards the look of provincial France and brands include Une Histoire Simple, Blanc d'Ivoire, Damask and Roger Lascalles. Toiletries from L'Occitane and Cade and children's pyjamas are also available.  Studio One Furniture  71 Morningside Road, Edinburgh EH10 4AY, 0131-447 2179 studioonefurniture.co.uk  This shop sells wooden furniture made of oak, ash, pine and birch, including tables, beds, chairs, drawers, shelves and cabinets. Brands include Content by Conran and Pinetum. Studio One Furniture also sells nylon beanbags, mattresses from Blindcraft and Dunlopillo, Paul Mountain mirrors, hogla grass footstools, glass bowls, candlestick holders and a range of lights and lampshades.  Tangram  33-37 Jeffrey Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DH, 0131-556 6551 tangramfurnishers.co.uk  Founded in 1994, this shop specialises in products by European designers such as Paolo Piva, Antonio Citterio, Bruno Fattorini, Gijs Papavoine, Arne Jacobsen, Ingo Maurer, Tom Dixon and Nani Marquina. There are bright and modern sofas, beds, tables, cabinets, lighting, rugs and fabrics, and products can be made to measure. Tangram also offers an interior design consultancy service, which counts the National War Museum and the National Archives of Scotland as clients.  Tony Walker Interiors  Whitehall Court, 14 Telford Road, Edinburgh EH4 2BD, 0131-343 6151 tonywalker.co.uk  This shop, established in 1973, sells modern furniture, including beds from Interlubke and Cassina, dining tables and chairs from Rolf Benz and Cor, sofas from Ligne Roset and Hitch Mylius and lighting by Artemide and Flos. An interior design consultation service is also available.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: General: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Broadley Garden Centre  Cawdor Rd, Nairn, Moray IV12 5QU, 01667 452955 This small garden centre, open for 30 years, has been run by the McLaren family for the last 10. Although its collection of garden furniture is small, there are pots of all kinds, and a section dedicated to ornaments such as sundials and statues. Hetland Garden Nursery & Tea Room  Carrutherstown, Dumfries, Dumfriesshire DG1 4JX, 01387 840632 hetlandnursery.co.uk  The centre has been open for 13 years but recently refurbished its showroom. Furniture ranges from small benches to full dining sets. There are water features, pots and ornaments, many of which are displayed in the Old Orchard, a series of secluded gardens.  Mayshade Garden Centre  Mayshade Park, Dalkeith, Midlothian EH22 3LA, 0131-663 1093 mayshade.co.uk  Currently run by the third generation of the Darling family, the centre sells everything from gazebos to paving slabs. Being a former agricultural contractors, it has a landscaping department, but also stocks more decorative items like bird tables, gazebos and pots. There is also garden furniture from brands including Peter Smith, Alexander Rose, Cinnamon Home and Suntime.Primo Pots 314, Morningside Rd, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH10 4QH, 0131-447 5051  This specialist sells everything from handmade Italian terracotta pots, silver zinc pots, in all shapes, sizes and materials: some are suitable for period gardens, some are of modern design and others include self-watering systems. Most of Primo's goods are designed to be used in the garden but many would also work indoors.Sandyholm Garden Centre  Crossford, Carluke, Lanarkshire ML8 5QF, 01555 860205 sandyholmgardencentre.co.uk  Furniture includes benches, sun loungers, tables, chairs and recliners from companies like Nova, Alexander Rose and Westminster Teak. Decorative items include pots and stonewear from around the world, water features, ornaments and statues, plus fencing, gravel and slabs and a large collection of bird tables. Run by the Warnock family, it has been trading for 40 years. ", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Gardens: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:10:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Mr Purves Lighting Emporium 59 St Stephen St, Edinburgh EH3 5AH, 0131-556 4503 This shop, open since the 1970s, deals exclusively in brass oil lamps and oil lamp parts. Most are recent, although some collectors' items are available. A limited repairs service is also offered. The shop is only open on Saturdays but appointments can be booked at other times.Ottimo 44 Queen St, Edinburgh EH2 3NL, 0131-226 4750 ottimolighting.com Ottimo is a lighting shop and consultancy: it has consulted on buildings such as St Andrews University and Parliament House in Edinburgh. The consultancy is focused on energy efficient lighting: it is currently working on developing a house lit entirely by LEDs.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interior directory: Lighting: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:09:58Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Affordable Antiques 108 Causewayside, Edinburgh EH9 1PU, 0131-478 3006 This small family-run business sells wardrobes, chests, tables and bookcases, mostly made from stripped or polished pine, oak or mahogany and dating from before 1940.Carson Clark 181-183 Canongate, Edninburgh EH8 8BN, 0131-556 4710 edinburgh-royalmile.com/carson-clark This father-son business, founded in 1969, specialises in original and replica maps and sea charts from the 15th to the 19th century. Carson Clark was originally a professional mapmaker; his son Paul is equally enthused. Maps start at \u00a310 for a replica, rising to \u00a315,000 for a 16th-century sea chart. The Carsons also sell topographical prints, engravings and sketches of cities and landscapes, as well as replica 16th-century Mercator globes.Courtyard Antiques 108A Causeway Edinburgh, EH9 1PU, 0131-662 9008 Stocks a selection of furniture, military apparel, toys, china, costumes and curios dating from the Georgian era to the 60s.Georgian Antiques 10 Pattison Street, Edinburgh EH6 7HF, 0131-553 7286 georgianantiques.net Based in a five-storey listed warehouse building, this large family-owned business stocks an extensive selection of Georgian, Victorian and Edwardian furniture, from dining tables, chair sets and cabinets to sofas, linen presses and clocks, as well as smaller items like ceramics and lamps. There is also a furniture polishing and restoration service on site. Gow Antiques & Restoration Ltd. Pitscandly Farm, Forfar, Angus DD8 3NZ, 01307 465342 knowyourantiques.com Most of the furniture sold here is from the 18th and 19th centuries and comes from western Europe; there is also a selection of Regency and Victorian mirrors. Services include three-day antique furniture recognition courses, restoration in the on-site workshop, valuations and consultations about large collections, investments and flood damage.Iain Marr Antiques 3 Mid Street, Beauly, Inverness-shire, IV4 7DP, 01463 782372 iain-marr-antiques.com Iain and his wife Avril opened this shop in 1975: it specialises in Georgian silver, including plates, candleholders, cutlery and coffee pots, and Victorian silver. In addition to the silver, all of which is English or Scottish, the Marrs stock other small antique goods such as glass, porcelain, clocks, jewellery and paintings from the Victorian era to the present.James Scott Antiques 43 Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6QQ, 0131 556 8260 This shop, which has been run by James Scott for the last 40 years, focuses on smaller items, such as silver plates and brass handles, from various eras. There is a good selection of militaria, including antique weapons and medals. Now and Then 9 West Crosscuseway, Edinburgh EH8 9JW, 0131-668 2927 oldtoysandantiques.co.uk Now and Then has been selling antiques and collectables for 30 years. Stock rages from mechanical office and domestic equipment such as typewriters, sewing machines, pre-war radios and telephones to enamel signs, clockwork trains and Victorian Dinky die-cast cars (priced from \u00a35 to \u00a310,000 for a rare model).Pine and Old Lace 46 Victoria Street, Edinburgh EH1 2JW, 0131-225 3287 Pine and Old Lace has been in business for 30 years. Its shelves are lined with antique linen and lace sourced locally and its inventory includes bedding, tablecloths, napkins, tea cosies and underwear from the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries. The shop also sells dressers and kitchen furniture.The Thrie Estaits 49 Dundas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6RS, 0131-556 7084 thethrieestaits.co.uk This shop stocks unusual decorative knickknacks from Chinese porcelain and 1800s glass rummers (glasses for hot rum toddy) to mirrors, stone and earthenware statues and hatstands. The shop has sold pieces to local hotels including the Witchery. Established in the 1970s, The Thrie Estaits is named after a satirical 16th-century Scottish play.Tim Hardie Antiques and Fine Art The Old Sawmill, Rait Antique Centre, Rait, Perthshire, PH2 7RT, 01821 670760 timhardie.com Tim Hardie has been dealing in antiques for 17 years, although not always in the Rait Antique Centre. His forte is 19th-century Scottish furniture of all kinds, but he also sells a selection of prints and paintings. A restoration service is available on site.Unicorn Antiques 65 Dundas Street, Edinburgh, EH3 6RS, 0131-556 7176 Nancy Duncan established this antiques and junk shop in 1967. The building is a former dairy and her collectables are displayed on the original marble shelves. Duncan sells a mixture of furniture, china, glass, ceramics, cutlery, silver plated items, brass fittings and musical instruments in various styles.Young Antiques 185 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh, EH10 4DG, 0131-229 1361 Young Antiques's stock ranges from large Georgian, Victorian and Edwardian wooden furniture to oriental ceramics. You can pick up Victorian writing desks and sideboards for \u00a3200-\u00a3500 and wardrobes and chests for \u00a3300-\u00a3600.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Antiques: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-02-23T00:09:56Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Audio Merchants 175 Howard Street, Glasgow G1 4HF, 0141-552 2598 audiomerchants.co.uk Audio Merchants has been open for two years, selling hi-fi systems, amplifiers, speakers, CD and DVD players, televisions and projectors by brands such as Loewe, Philips, Sony, Linn and Denon. Repairs and custom installations are also carried out and the shop stocks the Fatman iTube Valvedock, one of the product of the year winners in the What Hi-Fi? Awards 2007.Colin M Smith 139 Castle Street, Forfar, Angus DD8 3HN, 01307 464187 20 Glengate, Kirriemuir, Angus DD8 4HD, 01575 572809 8 Whitehall Street, Dundee DD1 4AF, 01382 224488 Abbeygate Shopping Centre, High Street, Arbroath DD11 1HY, 01241 877877 colinmsmith.com 168 Holburn Street, Aberdeen AB10 6DA, 01224 588388 cms-aberdeen.com Started by Colin M Smith nearly 40 years ago and now run by his son, Colin M Smith is a Panasonic specialist, selling TVs, DVD players and recorders, hi-fi systems and speakers. Digital cameras and camcorders are also sold, as are washing machines from Hotpoint, Bosch and others. Installations and repairs for all Panasonic and Sony products are also offered.Holburn Hi-fi 441 Holburn Street, Aberdeen AB10 7GU, 01224 585713, 01224 572729 holburnhifi.co.uk Glasgow Audio, 135 Great Western Road, Glasgow G4 9AH, 0141 3324707, 0141 3322200 glasgowaudio.com A family-run business selling hi-fi equipment including CD players, turntables, speakers and tuners. Additionally, home cinema equipment such as projectors, plasma televisions and DVD players are available. Stock includes awardwinning products in the What Hi-Fi 2007 Awards from Onkyo, Bowers & Wilkins and Cyrus, and there is an installation service.James-Morrow 1 Home Street, Edinburgh, EH3 9JR, 0131-229 8777 136 Ingram Street, Glasgow G1 1EJ, 0141-552 7333 james-morrow.com Owned by Rupert James and Nick Morrow, this business specialises in Bose products - particularly at the Glasgow store, where all the electronics are from Bose. The Edinburgh shop has a more varied range, including televisions, speakers, hi-fi systems, projectors and screens from brands such as Meridian, Linn and Monitor Audio. A customised installation service is offered.Loud & Clear 520 St Vincent Street, Glasgow G3 8XZ, 0141-221 0221 Bonnington Mill, 72 Newhaven Road, Edinburgh EH6 5QG, 0131-555 3963 loud-clear.co.uk Started by father and son Alan and John Boyd in 1996, Loud & Clear specialises in home cinema equipment such as plasma and LCD TVs, speakers and projectors, as well as selling hi-fi systems and turntables. Brands stocked include Denon, Naim, Roksan and Linn. There are four demonstration rooms at the Glasgow shop and three at the Edinburgh shop. Customised installations and repairs for hi-fi separates are also offered.Moray Business and Computer Centre 20 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 552000 moray-business.co.uk Owner Angus Gunn sells computers by Acer, Fujitsu, Siemens, Sony and Toshiba, among others; laptops, printers, tills and computer screens are also available. Gunn, who has been here since 1992, can custom build PCs, allowing customers to select the processors, hard drive and various other components. He also does repairs.McMichaels's 3 Mill Street, Alloa, FK10 1DT, 01259 724230 23 Upper Craigs, Stirling, FK8 2DG, 01786 470750 Sterling Furniture (Hall 5), Moss Road, Tillicoultry FK13 6NS , 01259 755158 mcmichaels.co.uk The McMichael family started with the Alloa shop in 1910, selling musical instruments, before moving into valve radios and TVs. Now the business sells LCD televisions, projectors, blu_ray DVD players, speakers and hi-fi systems. Digital cameras, computers, camcorders and in-car navigation systems are also sold. The shops specialise in products from Sony and Bose, even winning the UK Sony Centre of the Year Award for 2006/07. Furniture for audiovisual equipment is also available. Additionally, customised installation and repairs services are provided. The third store is in the Tillicoultry Sterling Furniture shopping centre.Robert Whyte 559 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G3 7PQ, 0141-204 3230 robertwhyteltd.co.uk Owned by Robert Whyte for around 30 years, this shop sells televisions, DVD players, projectors and speakers by Sony, Samsung and Philips. Cameras, camcorders, computers and audiovisual furniture are also available. There's a repairs service as well.Wilson's Audio Visual 98 Bath Street, Glasgow G2 2EN, 0141-332 5012 wilsonsav.co.uk Employee Dave Wilson and his wife Avril took this business over from his former employers last year. The shop has since become a Loewe specialist for televisions, DVD players and speakers. Products from Teac and Jacob Jensen are also available. Additionally, standard television installation and repairs services are offered.", "tags": ["Interiors directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Interiors directory: Audiovisual: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blairbeich PlantationGartocharn, Loch Lomond, Dunbartonshire G83 8RR, 01389 830257blairbeich.com\u00a370-\u00a3100, single \u00a360-\u00a390Malla Macdonald runs this two-bedroom B&B, which is surrounded by trees and located next to a private lake in the Trossachs national park: Loch Lomond is a mile and-a-half away. Both bedrooms have an en suite and guests are served a full Scottish or continental breakfast. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a335: Malla incorporates dishes from her native Sweden.Brook Linn Country HouseLeny Feus, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8AU, 01877 330103brooklinn-scotland.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a335-\u00a340This 150-year-old Victorian house is situated on the edge of Callander town, in the Trossachs national park, and is surrounded by two acres of grounds. It has four bedrooms, all with en suites. Stirling castle is 20 minutes in the car. Owners Derek and Fiona House serve a full Scottish breakfast each morning.Chlenry FarmhouseCastle Kennedy, Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 8SL, 01776 705316chlenryfarmhouse.com\u00a365, single \u00a340Chlenry Farmhouse is situated on the Southern Upland Way walk. There are three bedrooms: the twin and double share a bathroom, while the second twin room has private facilities. A cooked breakfast is included, and hosts David and Ginny Wolseley Brinton can provide a four-course dinner for \u00a327.50 or a light supper for \u00a315.Craigard Guest HouseInvergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501258 craigard.saltire.org\u00a355, single \u00a327.50Andrew and Joy Middleton have seven bedrooms at their Victorian property, five that have en suites. There are a number of marked woodland paths around the local area and the Great Glen Way is a few miles away. Walkers can also arrange to be picked up from there nearby Loch Oich, another popular walking destination. Other popular walking destinations include the many Munros in the area. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a311 by prior arrangement.Craig VillaLoch Lomond, Dalmally, COUNTY PA33 1AX, 01838 200255 craigvilla.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a360, single \u00a325-\u00a330Craig Villa is a family-run guest house that stands in an acre and-a-half of grounds; it is 11 miles from the Loch Lomond national park and is surrounded by an area well-suited to hill walking. The property has nine bedrooms and a dining room that overlooks mountains; there is a restaurant 400 metres away that serves evening meals.Distillery HouseNevis Bridge, Fort William, Highland PH33 6LR, 01397 700103stayinfortwilliam.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a3104, single \u00a348Philip and Linda Stuart's B&B is set in the grounds of the old Glenlochy distillery against the backdrop of Ben Nevis. It is a five-minute walk from the West Highland Way and has 10 bedrooms, each with an en suite. Complimentary whisky and shortbread is served in the reading lounge, where books are available on local history and whisky trails.FincraigsKilmany, Cupar, Fife KY15 4QQ, 01382 330256\u00a380, single \u00a340Fincraig is an 18th-century farmhouse with the North East Fife cycling Route going past the house. It is also two miles from the Firth of Tay's coastal walks. The double bedroom has an en suite while the twin room has a separate bathroom. There is a drawing room with a log fire and a TV and a guest sitting room.Frennich HouseBrig O'Turk, Kilmahog, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8HT, 01877 376274frennich-house.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a356, single \u00a335-\u00a340There are two bedrooms available in Frennich House, run by Anne and Hugh Dobbins. A cooked breakfast, including homemade scones, is provided. The house is set within the boundary of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, which boasts many walks and trails.Lochside CottageFasnacloich, Appin, Argyll and Bute PA38 4BJ, 01631 730216lochsidecottage.net\u00a364-\u00a376, single \u00a332-\u00a338This cottage has a private loch at the end of the garden and has views across the hills of Loch Etive and the Glencoe mountains. The district of Appin is mountainous, offering walks, climbs and pony trekking. The owners, Stella and Earle Broadbent, can help guests plan routes. There are three bedrooms.Newtonmill HouseBy Brechin, Angus DD9 7PZ, 01356 622533newtonmillhouse.co.uk\u00a396, single \u00a358This 18th-century property is 20- minute drive from Glamis Castle. The house has two bedrooms, and hosts Stephen and Rose Rickman serve a full Scottish breakfast; fruitfrom the walled garden is also available. The house is two miles from the Blue Door walk.No.3 Candacraig SquareStrathdon, Aberdeenshire AB36 8XT, 01975 651 472candacraig.com\u00a380, single \u00a347.50There are three bedrooms at this former laundry that served Candacraig House, which is located in the Cairngorms national park. Two have en suite bathrooms and one has separate bath and shower. For breakfast, there is a choice of porridge, eggs and fruit, as well as traditional Scottish items, such as smoked fresh herring, Finnan Haddie and Arbroath smokies.Tir Alainn8 Upper Breakish, Isle of Skye IV42 8PY, 01471 822366visitskye.com\u00a370, single \u00a335Pam and Ron Davison run this three-bedroom B&B, which has sea views and a guest lounge stocked with books and whiskies. Ron is a professional mountain guide and runs walks of the nearby coast and hills that vary in length and difficulty and can include historic and natural points of interest.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Walking: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blairbeich PlantationGartocharn, Loch Lomond, Dunbartonshire G83 8RR, 01389 830257blairbeich.com\u00a370-\u00a3100, single \u00a360-\u00a390Malla Macdonald runs this two-bedroom B&B, which is surrounded by trees and located next to a private lake in the Trossachs national park: Loch Lomond is a mile and-a-half away. Both bedrooms have an en suite and guests are served a full Scottish or continental breakfast. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a335: Malla incorporates dishes from her native Sweden.Brook Linn Country HouseLeny Feus, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8AU, 01877 330103brooklinn-scotland.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a335-\u00a340This 150-year-old Victorian house is situated on the edge of Callander town, in the Trossachs national park, and is surrounded by two acres of grounds. It has four bedrooms, all with en suites. Stirling castle is 20 minutes in the car. Owners Derek and Fiona House serve a full Scottish breakfast each morning.Chlenry FarmhouseCastle Kennedy, Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 8SL, 01776 705316chlenryfarmhouse.com\u00a365, single \u00a340Chlenry Farmhouse is situated on the Southern Upland Way walk. There are three bedrooms: the twin and double share a bathroom, while the second twin room has private facilities. A cooked breakfast is included, and hosts David and Ginny Wolseley Brinton can provide a four-course dinner for \u00a327.50 or a light supper for \u00a315.Craigard Guest HouseInvergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501258 craigard.saltire.org\u00a355, single \u00a327.50Andrew and Joy Middleton have seven bedrooms at their Victorian property, five that have en suites. There are a number of marked woodland paths around the local area and the Great Glen Way is a few miles away. Walkers can also arrange to be picked up from there nearby Loch Oich, another popular walking destination. Other popular walking destinations include the many Munros in the area. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a311 by prior arrangement.Craig VillaLoch Lomond, Dalmally, COUNTY PA33 1AX, 01838 200255 craigvilla.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a360, single \u00a325-\u00a330Craig Villa is a family-run guest house that stands in an acre and-a-half of grounds; it is 11 miles from the Loch Lomond national park and is surrounded by an area well-suited to hill walking. The property has nine bedrooms and a dining room that overlooks mountains; there is a restaurant 400 metres away that serves evening meals.Distillery HouseNevis Bridge, Fort William, Highland PH33 6LR, 01397 700103stayinfortwilliam.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a3104, single \u00a348Philip and Linda Stuart's B&B is set in the grounds of the old Glenlochy distillery against the backdrop of Ben Nevis. It is a five-minute walk from the West Highland Way and has 10 bedrooms, each with an en suite. Complimentary whisky and shortbread is served in the reading lounge, where books are available on local history and whisky trails.FincraigsKilmany, Cupar, Fife KY15 4QQ, 01382 330256\u00a380, single \u00a340Fincraig is an 18th-century farmhouse with the North East Fife cycling Route going past the house. It is also two miles from the Firth of Tay's coastal walks. The double bedroom has an en suite while the twin room has a separate bathroom. There is a drawing room with a log fire and a TV and a guest sitting room.Frennich HouseBrig O'Turk, Kilmahog, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8HT, 01877 376274frennich-house.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a356, single \u00a335-\u00a340There are two bedrooms available in Frennich House, run by Anne and Hugh Dobbins. A cooked breakfast, including homemade scones, is provided. The house is set within the boundary of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, which boasts many walks and trails.Lochside CottageFasnacloich, Appin, Argyll and Bute PA38 4BJ, 01631 730216lochsidecottage.net\u00a364-\u00a376, single \u00a332-\u00a338This cottage has a private loch at the end of the garden and has views across the hills of Loch Etive and the Glencoe mountains. The district of Appin is mountainous, offering walks, climbs and pony trekking. The owners, Stella and Earle Broadbent, can help guests plan routes. There are three bedrooms.Newtonmill HouseBy Brechin, Angus DD9 7PZ, 01356 622533newtonmillhouse.co.uk\u00a396, single \u00a358This 18th-century property is 20- minute drive from Glamis Castle. The house has two bedrooms, and hosts Stephen and Rose Rickman serve a full Scottish breakfast; fruitfrom the walled garden is also available. The house is two miles from the Blue Door walk.No.3 Candacraig SquareStrathdon, Aberdeenshire AB36 8XT, 01975 651 472candacraig.com\u00a380, single \u00a347.50There are three bedrooms at this former laundry that served Candacraig House, which is located in the Cairngorms national park. Two have en suite bathrooms and one has separate bath and shower. For breakfast, there is a choice of porridge, eggs and fruit, as well as traditional Scottish items, such as smoked fresh herring, Finnan Haddie and Arbroath smokies.Tir Alainn8 Upper Breakish, Isle of Skye IV42 8PY, 01471 822366visitskye.com\u00a370, single \u00a335Pam and Ron Davison run this three-bedroom B&B, which has sea views and a guest lounge stocked with books and whiskies. Ron is a professional mountain guide and runs walks of the nearby coast and hills that vary in length and difficulty and can include historic and natural points of interest.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Walking: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The minke whale can be an inquisitive beast. At its boldest, it will swim over to inspect the small boat idling nearby, displaying its bright white underbelly as it twists over and swims under the hull, the better to see its admirers. For the amateur whale watcher visiting Mull, it is the defining moment of their marine safari.Minke - one of the world's smaller whales - are regular visitors to the shallow inshore waters around the Hebridean island, feeding along the tide lines of the seas warmed by the Gulf Stream coming in from the Atlantic. The animal surfaces with a sudden jet of water, its sleek back and petite curved dorsal fin rising above the water.Basking sharks are also regular visitors, drawn by the plumes of plankton that are pushed up close to the surface by tides and currents. Harbour porpoises and dolphins are a permanent presence around Mull and its junior sisters Coll, Tiree, Treshish and Staffa. These highly sociable creatures often hug the coast in the quiet, sheltered waters of the Sound of Mull in groups. Standing on the observation deck of the Sula Beag, the main whale-watching vessel run by Mull's largest marine tours company, Sea Life Surveys, whale watchers are turned into hunters - scouring the seas for the first glimpse of whale or dolphin. On one such safari in early May - at the beginning of the island's whale-watching season, when the seas are choppy and whipped by cool winds into foam-tipped waves - we picked out several porpoise as their snouts and domed foreheads briefly broke the surface.And once or twice each summer, the hefty black and white form of an orca, or killer whale, will be seen breaking the waves. Sperm whales have been spotted and once in the last few years, just once, local whale watchers have seen a huge fin whale - the size of several double-decker buses - surfacing in deeper waters to the west. But minke are the chief attraction for the day-long expeditions organised by Sea Life Surveys, a family firm that pioneered whale watching in Britain, run from quayside offices in the Hebridean island's main town, Tobermory. Minke are now being sighted up to half a dozen times a day, as the summer season brings warmer waters and calmer seas. \"We'll see what they're doing and where they're feeding, and then get into an area where they may well approach us,\" says James Fairbairn, who recently took over running the firm from his father. \"Sometimes they roll on their backs to see us and show their underbelly - it's completely white and you see this massive white thing going under the boat watching us. It's incredible.\" James's father, \"Pops\" Fairbairn, originally a farmer, diversified from agriculture into sea-angling trips and creel fishing - a change that put him in contact with local minke. To his astonishment, the whales would approach his boat, watching him work. He began organising amateur whale-watching expeditions - the first in the UK - using a 7-metre boat with just 12 passengers. They now have two 15-metre vessels: the Sula Beag, which can take 40 passengers and the Sula Mhor, which takes 60.Its success has helped make Mull one of the most successful ecotourism destinations in Britain. It has spawned local rivals who also boast of whale encounters on their sightseeing cruises to Fingal's Cave on Staffa and outlying islands, and helped create a thriving wildlife watching industry on the island - particularly for bird-watchers.Drawn often by Mull's rich population of birds of prey, bird-watchers also now crowd the decks of the whale-watching boats. Seabirds play a key role in these expeditions, which cover a wide area of sea to the north and west of Mull, venturing up to 30km northwards to the island of Eigg.The Manx shearwaters, razorbills, kittiwake and puffins that dart energetically just above the water's surface are an excellent guide to whalefeeding areas: they crowd over the plankton and tiny fish that rise to the surface at the tide lines and \"upswellings\" where tides and currents meet. This is the same food for the minke.Seen from the boats, whose decks rise just a few metres above the surface, the seas between northern Mull, Ardnamurchan Point and Coll to the west are remarkably busy. Shearwaters, their downturned wingtips almost skimming the waves, will fly past in \"V\" formation; razorbills will flash past in a hurry. Puffins - oblivious to the boat - bob on the waves, while black wing-tipped kittiwakes fly overhead.It is a far more intimate and involving experience at sea level - an experience heightened by the Fairbairns' system of using passengers as amateur field workers. There are no whales today - it is quite early in the season. Fairbairn is now waiting to see what this summer delivers. \"You just never know. That's what makes it so exciting.\"sealifesurveys.com", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Wildlife holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Environment", "Travel", "Animals", "Whale watching holidays", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Mull is Britain's whale watching capital"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blairbeich PlantationGartocharn, Loch Lomond, Dunbartonshire G83 8RR, 01389 830257blairbeich.com\u00a370-\u00a3100, single \u00a360-\u00a390Malla Macdonald runs this two-bedroom B&B, which is surrounded by trees and located next to a private lake in the Trossachs national park: Loch Lomond is a mile and-a-half away. Both bedrooms have an en suite and guests are served a full Scottish or continental breakfast. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a335: Malla incorporates dishes from her native Sweden.Brook Linn Country HouseLeny Feus, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8AU, 01877 330103brooklinn-scotland.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a335-\u00a340This 150-year-old Victorian house is situated on the edge of Callander town, in the Trossachs national park, and is surrounded by two acres of grounds. It has four bedrooms, all with en suites. Stirling castle is 20 minutes in the car. Owners Derek and Fiona House serve a full Scottish breakfast each morning.Chlenry FarmhouseCastle Kennedy, Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 8SL, 01776 705316chlenryfarmhouse.com\u00a365, single \u00a340Chlenry Farmhouse is situated on the Southern Upland Way walk. There are three bedrooms: the twin and double share a bathroom, while the second twin room has private facilities. A cooked breakfast is included, and hosts David and Ginny Wolseley Brinton can provide a four-course dinner for \u00a327.50 or a light supper for \u00a315.Craigard Guest HouseInvergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501258 craigard.saltire.org\u00a355, single \u00a327.50Andrew and Joy Middleton have seven bedrooms at their Victorian property, five that have en suites. There are a number of marked woodland paths around the local area and the Great Glen Way is a few miles away. Walkers can also arrange to be picked up from there nearby Loch Oich, another popular walking destination. Other popular walking destinations include the many Munros in the area. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a311 by prior arrangement.Craig VillaLoch Lomond, Dalmally, COUNTY PA33 1AX, 01838 200255 craigvilla.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a360, single \u00a325-\u00a330Craig Villa is a family-run guest house that stands in an acre and-a-half of grounds; it is 11 miles from the Loch Lomond national park and is surrounded by an area well-suited to hill walking. The property has nine bedrooms and a dining room that overlooks mountains; there is a restaurant 400 metres away that serves evening meals.Distillery HouseNevis Bridge, Fort William, Highland PH33 6LR, 01397 700103stayinfortwilliam.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a3104, single \u00a348Philip and Linda Stuart's B&B is set in the grounds of the old Glenlochy distillery against the backdrop of Ben Nevis. It is a five-minute walk from the West Highland Way and has 10 bedrooms, each with an en suite. Complimentary whisky and shortbread is served in the reading lounge, where books are available on local history and whisky trails.FincraigsKilmany, Cupar, Fife KY15 4QQ, 01382 330256\u00a380, single \u00a340Fincraig is an 18th-century farmhouse with the North East Fife cycling Route going past the house. It is also two miles from the Firth of Tay's coastal walks. The double bedroom has an en suite while the twin room has a separate bathroom. There is a drawing room with a log fire and a TV and a guest sitting room.Frennich HouseBrig O'Turk, Kilmahog, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8HT, 01877 376274frennich-house.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a356, single \u00a335-\u00a340There are two bedrooms available in Frennich House, run by Anne and Hugh Dobbins. A cooked breakfast, including homemade scones, is provided. The house is set within the boundary of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, which boasts many walks and trails.Lochside CottageFasnacloich, Appin, Argyll and Bute PA38 4BJ, 01631 730216lochsidecottage.net\u00a364-\u00a376, single \u00a332-\u00a338This cottage has a private loch at the end of the garden and has views across the hills of Loch Etive and the Glencoe mountains. The district of Appin is mountainous, offering walks, climbs and pony trekking. The owners, Stella and Earle Broadbent, can help guests plan routes. There are three bedrooms.Newtonmill HouseBy Brechin, Angus DD9 7PZ, 01356 622533newtonmillhouse.co.uk\u00a396, single \u00a358This 18th-century property is 20- minute drive from Glamis Castle. The house has two bedrooms, and hosts Stephen and Rose Rickman serve a full Scottish breakfast; fruitfrom the walled garden is also available. The house is two miles from the Blue Door walk.No.3 Candacraig SquareStrathdon, Aberdeenshire AB36 8XT, 01975 651 472candacraig.com\u00a380, single \u00a347.50There are three bedrooms at this former laundry that served Candacraig House, which is located in the Cairngorms national park. Two have en suite bathrooms and one has separate bath and shower. For breakfast, there is a choice of porridge, eggs and fruit, as well as traditional Scottish items, such as smoked fresh herring, Finnan Haddie and Arbroath smokies.Tir Alainn8 Upper Breakish, Isle of Skye IV42 8PY, 01471 822366visitskye.com\u00a370, single \u00a335Pam and Ron Davison run this three-bedroom B&B, which has sea views and a guest lounge stocked with books and whiskies. Ron is a professional mountain guide and runs walks of the nearby coast and hills that vary in length and difficulty and can include historic and natural points of interest.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Walking: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The minke whale can be an inquisitive beast. At its boldest, it will swim over to inspect the small boat idling nearby, displaying its bright white underbelly as it twists over and swims under the hull, the better to see its admirers. For the amateur whale watcher visiting Mull, it is the defining moment of their marine safari.Minke - one of the world's smaller whales - are regular visitors to the shallow inshore waters around the Hebridean island, feeding along the tide lines of the seas warmed by the Gulf Stream coming in from the Atlantic. The animal surfaces with a sudden jet of water, its sleek back and petite curved dorsal fin rising above the water.Basking sharks are also regular visitors, drawn by the plumes of plankton that are pushed up close to the surface by tides and currents. Harbour porpoises and dolphins are a permanent presence around Mull and its junior sisters Coll, Tiree, Treshish and Staffa. These highly sociable creatures often hug the coast in the quiet, sheltered waters of the Sound of Mull in groups. Standing on the observation deck of the Sula Beag, the main whale-watching vessel run by Mull's largest marine tours company, Sea Life Surveys, whale watchers are turned into hunters - scouring the seas for the first glimpse of whale or dolphin. On one such safari in early May - at the beginning of the island's whale-watching season, when the seas are choppy and whipped by cool winds into foam-tipped waves - we picked out several porpoise as their snouts and domed foreheads briefly broke the surface.And once or twice each summer, the hefty black and white form of an orca, or killer whale, will be seen breaking the waves. Sperm whales have been spotted and once in the last few years, just once, local whale watchers have seen a huge fin whale - the size of several double-decker buses - surfacing in deeper waters to the west. But minke are the chief attraction for the day-long expeditions organised by Sea Life Surveys, a family firm that pioneered whale watching in Britain, run from quayside offices in the Hebridean island's main town, Tobermory. Minke are now being sighted up to half a dozen times a day, as the summer season brings warmer waters and calmer seas. \"We'll see what they're doing and where they're feeding, and then get into an area where they may well approach us,\" says James Fairbairn, who recently took over running the firm from his father. \"Sometimes they roll on their backs to see us and show their underbelly - it's completely white and you see this massive white thing going under the boat watching us. It's incredible.\" James's father, \"Pops\" Fairbairn, originally a farmer, diversified from agriculture into sea-angling trips and creel fishing - a change that put him in contact with local minke. To his astonishment, the whales would approach his boat, watching him work. He began organising amateur whale-watching expeditions - the first in the UK - using a 7-metre boat with just 12 passengers. They now have two 15-metre vessels: the Sula Beag, which can take 40 passengers and the Sula Mhor, which takes 60.Its success has helped make Mull one of the most successful ecotourism destinations in Britain. It has spawned local rivals who also boast of whale encounters on their sightseeing cruises to Fingal's Cave on Staffa and outlying islands, and helped create a thriving wildlife watching industry on the island - particularly for bird-watchers.Drawn often by Mull's rich population of birds of prey, bird-watchers also now crowd the decks of the whale-watching boats. Seabirds play a key role in these expeditions, which cover a wide area of sea to the north and west of Mull, venturing up to 30km northwards to the island of Eigg.The Manx shearwaters, razorbills, kittiwake and puffins that dart energetically just above the water's surface are an excellent guide to whalefeeding areas: they crowd over the plankton and tiny fish that rise to the surface at the tide lines and \"upswellings\" where tides and currents meet. This is the same food for the minke.Seen from the boats, whose decks rise just a few metres above the surface, the seas between northern Mull, Ardnamurchan Point and Coll to the west are remarkably busy. Shearwaters, their downturned wingtips almost skimming the waves, will fly past in \"V\" formation; razorbills will flash past in a hurry. Puffins - oblivious to the boat - bob on the waves, while black wing-tipped kittiwakes fly overhead.It is a far more intimate and involving experience at sea level - an experience heightened by the Fairbairns' system of using passengers as amateur field workers. There are no whales today - it is quite early in the season. Fairbairn is now waiting to see what this summer delivers. \"You just never know. That's what makes it so exciting.\"sealifesurveys.com", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Wildlife holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Environment", "Travel", "Animals", "Whale watching holidays", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Mull is Britain's whale watching capital"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Braemore Square Country House Loch Broom, Wester Ross, Ross-shire IV23 2RX, 01854 655357 braemoresquare.com \u00a360, single \u00a350 The three-bedroom B&B was built in 1840 as a stage post and was previously part of engineer Sir John Fowler's estate; among other things, he was responsible for the suspension bridge over Corrieshalloch Gorge, a mile from the B&B.Cambo House Kingsbarns, St. Andrews, Fife KY16 8QD, 01333 450054 camboestate.com \u00a394-\u00a3130, single \u00a347-\u00a365 Cambo House is set in the Cambo estate, the home of the Erskine family since 1688. The estate is 1,200 acres and the Victorian mansion was built in 1881. There are two bedrooms and the guest sitting rooms overlooks the fountain and gardens. The beach is a short walk from the estate through woodlands and Golf Links is 200 metres away.Castle Stuart Petty Parish, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 7JH, 01463 790745 \u00a3390, no single occupancy This castle has been in the Stuart family since 1625 and is currently owned by Charles and Elizabeth. There are eight bedrooms, all named after the Scottish clans who fought for Bonnie Prince Charlie in the battle of Culloden, and decorated with their respective tartan. There are secret passages and doors around the castle and the three-turret room at the top of the east tower is said to be haunted. A four-course dinner banquet is included in the price.Castleton House Hotel By Glamis, Angus DD8, 1SJ, 01307 840340 castletonglamis.co.uk \u00a3200-\u00a3240, single \u00a3130-\u00a3150 The house and lawn stand on a medieval motte; the house is 100-years-old, and home to owners Verity and David Webster, as well as their chickens, ducks and Tamworth pigs. There is a garden and orchard, and the fruit and vegetables from here get used in the kitchen. There are six bedrooms available.Craighall Castle Blairgowrie, Perth and Kinross, PH10 7JB, 01250 874749 craighall.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a340 Craighall Castle was built in 1533 for the Rattray family. It is situated on the top of a cliff and overlooks the river Ericht. Current descendants Nicky and Lachie offer two bedrooms and the breakfast they serve a full Scottish.Dinnet House Aboyne, Aberdeenshire, AB34 5LN, 01339 885332 \u00a390-\u00a3100, single \u00a345-\u00a350 The former Victorian shooting lodge stands in 50 acres of private grounds: guests can stay in one of three bedroom, two that overlook the river Dee and one that overlooks the Morven mountain. Hosts Sabrina and Marcus Humphrey can provide dinner for \u00a325, which includes ingredients such as meat and game from the estate farm.Ellangowan St John Street, Creetown, Dumfries and Galloway, DG8 7JF, 01671 820201 ellangowan.co.uk \u00a356-\u00a364, single \u00a334-\u00a336 Ellangowan was featured in the 1973 film The Wicker Man - it was transformed into the Green Man pub and fans of the film often come and have their photo taken at the bar. As well as eight bedrooms, owner Bill Christie has a restaurant where guests can dine in the evening.Ethie Castle Inverkeilor, By Arbroath, Angus, DD11 5SP, 01241 830434 ethiecastle.com \u00a395-\u00a3110, single \u00a375-\u00a390 Ethie Castle was built in the 1300s for the abbot and monks of Arbroath Abbey and is now owned by Kirstin de Morgan. There are thought to be several secret passages in the castle, including one going from the public lounge room, the Cardinal's Room, to the chapel.Glentower Lower Observatory Fortwilliam, Inverness-shire, PH33 6RQ, 01397 704007 glentower.com \u00a376-\u00a390, single \u00a376-\u00a390 Glentower Lower Observatory was built in the late 1800s to complement the observatory on the summit of Ben Nevis. Meteological observations were made from July 1890 until 1904, when funding became an issue. It is now a seven-bedroom B&B run by Trevor and Catriona Rosie. Fort William town centre can be reached in five minutes on foot and Cowhill path and Ben Nevis are about a five-minute drive away.The Grange Grange Road, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 6JF, 01397 705516 thegrange-scotland.co.uk \u00a398-\u00a3110, single \u00a388.20-\u00a399 The Grange is a black and white Victorian house with a small turret and decorative windows, owned by John and Joan Campbell. It is located above Loch Linhe and each of the four bedrooms has views over the loch; the turret room is decorated with French oak furniture and the Robroy room has an original Louis XV king-size bed.Inveresk House 3 Inveresk Village, Musselburgh, East Lothian EH21 7UA, 0131-665 5855 invereskhouse.com \u00a3100, single \u00a365 Inveresk House was built on the site of a Roman settlement and has a passage running underneath it: it is also thought that Oliver Cromwell used the building as his headquarters for two months in the 1650s. Owners Alice and Johnny Chute can take guests on a history tour of the building, which has three bedrooms, a twin, a double and a family room. Guests can have cereals, Scottish porridge, eggs, bacon and toast for breakfast.Old Church of Urquhart Parrandier, Meft Road, Urquhart by Elgin IV30 8NH, 01343 843063 oldchurch.eu \u00a358, single \u00a339 This 19th-century former church has a 70ft-high tower and functioning bell: given advance warning, the owners can toll the bell to mark romantic occasions. There are three bedrooms and two guest lounges and meals are served in the gallery, under the traditional church ceiling: an evening meal can be provided by arrangement.The Old Station Stravithie Bridge, St Andrews, Fife KY16 8LR, 01334 880505 theoldstation.co.uk \u00a390-\u00a3130, single \u00a370 Six of the eight bedrooms at this B&B are located in the main house, a refurbished Victorian railway station: one is a Scottish themed room, another has Oriental-style furniture and art. The other two bedrooms are suites in a converted train carriage in the two-acre garden.Skirling House Skirling, by Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6HD, 01899 860274 skirlinghouse.com \u00a3100-\u00a3125, single \u00a360-\u00a380 Skirling House was designed by Scottish architect Ramsay Traquair for Lord Carmichael, the first governor of Bengal. It took five years to build and is home some of the Lord's artworks, including a 16th-century Florentine carved ceiling in the drawing room. Five bedrooms are available and the breakfast menu includes a cooked meal, kippers and a daily special.Tullibole Castle By Crook of Devon, Kinross, Kinross-shire KY13 0QN, 01577 840236 \u00a390, single \u00a355 The Moncreiff family have owned this Grade A-listed castle since 1747 and current owners Rhoderick and Alison offer guests one twin bedroom, with its own bathroom and the use of the Great Hall as a private sitting room. The property stands in a 260-acre estate where there is the ruins of a medieval church.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Unusual places: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blairbeich PlantationGartocharn, Loch Lomond, Dunbartonshire G83 8RR, 01389 830257blairbeich.com\u00a370-\u00a3100, single \u00a360-\u00a390Malla Macdonald runs this two-bedroom B&B, which is surrounded by trees and located next to a private lake in the Trossachs national park: Loch Lomond is a mile and-a-half away. Both bedrooms have an en suite and guests are served a full Scottish or continental breakfast. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a335: Malla incorporates dishes from her native Sweden.Brook Linn Country HouseLeny Feus, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8AU, 01877 330103brooklinn-scotland.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a335-\u00a340This 150-year-old Victorian house is situated on the edge of Callander town, in the Trossachs national park, and is surrounded by two acres of grounds. It has four bedrooms, all with en suites. Stirling castle is 20 minutes in the car. Owners Derek and Fiona House serve a full Scottish breakfast each morning.Chlenry FarmhouseCastle Kennedy, Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 8SL, 01776 705316chlenryfarmhouse.com\u00a365, single \u00a340Chlenry Farmhouse is situated on the Southern Upland Way walk. There are three bedrooms: the twin and double share a bathroom, while the second twin room has private facilities. A cooked breakfast is included, and hosts David and Ginny Wolseley Brinton can provide a four-course dinner for \u00a327.50 or a light supper for \u00a315.Craigard Guest HouseInvergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501258 craigard.saltire.org\u00a355, single \u00a327.50Andrew and Joy Middleton have seven bedrooms at their Victorian property, five that have en suites. There are a number of marked woodland paths around the local area and the Great Glen Way is a few miles away. Walkers can also arrange to be picked up from there nearby Loch Oich, another popular walking destination. Other popular walking destinations include the many Munros in the area. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a311 by prior arrangement.Craig VillaLoch Lomond, Dalmally, COUNTY PA33 1AX, 01838 200255 craigvilla.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a360, single \u00a325-\u00a330Craig Villa is a family-run guest house that stands in an acre and-a-half of grounds; it is 11 miles from the Loch Lomond national park and is surrounded by an area well-suited to hill walking. The property has nine bedrooms and a dining room that overlooks mountains; there is a restaurant 400 metres away that serves evening meals.Distillery HouseNevis Bridge, Fort William, Highland PH33 6LR, 01397 700103stayinfortwilliam.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a3104, single \u00a348Philip and Linda Stuart's B&B is set in the grounds of the old Glenlochy distillery against the backdrop of Ben Nevis. It is a five-minute walk from the West Highland Way and has 10 bedrooms, each with an en suite. Complimentary whisky and shortbread is served in the reading lounge, where books are available on local history and whisky trails.FincraigsKilmany, Cupar, Fife KY15 4QQ, 01382 330256\u00a380, single \u00a340Fincraig is an 18th-century farmhouse with the North East Fife cycling Route going past the house. It is also two miles from the Firth of Tay's coastal walks. The double bedroom has an en suite while the twin room has a separate bathroom. There is a drawing room with a log fire and a TV and a guest sitting room.Frennich HouseBrig O'Turk, Kilmahog, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8HT, 01877 376274frennich-house.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a356, single \u00a335-\u00a340There are two bedrooms available in Frennich House, run by Anne and Hugh Dobbins. A cooked breakfast, including homemade scones, is provided. The house is set within the boundary of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, which boasts many walks and trails.Lochside CottageFasnacloich, Appin, Argyll and Bute PA38 4BJ, 01631 730216lochsidecottage.net\u00a364-\u00a376, single \u00a332-\u00a338This cottage has a private loch at the end of the garden and has views across the hills of Loch Etive and the Glencoe mountains. The district of Appin is mountainous, offering walks, climbs and pony trekking. The owners, Stella and Earle Broadbent, can help guests plan routes. There are three bedrooms.Newtonmill HouseBy Brechin, Angus DD9 7PZ, 01356 622533newtonmillhouse.co.uk\u00a396, single \u00a358This 18th-century property is 20- minute drive from Glamis Castle. The house has two bedrooms, and hosts Stephen and Rose Rickman serve a full Scottish breakfast; fruitfrom the walled garden is also available. The house is two miles from the Blue Door walk.No.3 Candacraig SquareStrathdon, Aberdeenshire AB36 8XT, 01975 651 472candacraig.com\u00a380, single \u00a347.50There are three bedrooms at this former laundry that served Candacraig House, which is located in the Cairngorms national park. Two have en suite bathrooms and one has separate bath and shower. For breakfast, there is a choice of porridge, eggs and fruit, as well as traditional Scottish items, such as smoked fresh herring, Finnan Haddie and Arbroath smokies.Tir Alainn8 Upper Breakish, Isle of Skye IV42 8PY, 01471 822366visitskye.com\u00a370, single \u00a335Pam and Ron Davison run this three-bedroom B&B, which has sea views and a guest lounge stocked with books and whiskies. Ron is a professional mountain guide and runs walks of the nearby coast and hills that vary in length and difficulty and can include historic and natural points of interest.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Walking: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The minke whale can be an inquisitive beast. At its boldest, it will swim over to inspect the small boat idling nearby, displaying its bright white underbelly as it twists over and swims under the hull, the better to see its admirers. For the amateur whale watcher visiting Mull, it is the defining moment of their marine safari.Minke - one of the world's smaller whales - are regular visitors to the shallow inshore waters around the Hebridean island, feeding along the tide lines of the seas warmed by the Gulf Stream coming in from the Atlantic. The animal surfaces with a sudden jet of water, its sleek back and petite curved dorsal fin rising above the water.Basking sharks are also regular visitors, drawn by the plumes of plankton that are pushed up close to the surface by tides and currents. Harbour porpoises and dolphins are a permanent presence around Mull and its junior sisters Coll, Tiree, Treshish and Staffa. These highly sociable creatures often hug the coast in the quiet, sheltered waters of the Sound of Mull in groups. Standing on the observation deck of the Sula Beag, the main whale-watching vessel run by Mull's largest marine tours company, Sea Life Surveys, whale watchers are turned into hunters - scouring the seas for the first glimpse of whale or dolphin. On one such safari in early May - at the beginning of the island's whale-watching season, when the seas are choppy and whipped by cool winds into foam-tipped waves - we picked out several porpoise as their snouts and domed foreheads briefly broke the surface.And once or twice each summer, the hefty black and white form of an orca, or killer whale, will be seen breaking the waves. Sperm whales have been spotted and once in the last few years, just once, local whale watchers have seen a huge fin whale - the size of several double-decker buses - surfacing in deeper waters to the west. But minke are the chief attraction for the day-long expeditions organised by Sea Life Surveys, a family firm that pioneered whale watching in Britain, run from quayside offices in the Hebridean island's main town, Tobermory. Minke are now being sighted up to half a dozen times a day, as the summer season brings warmer waters and calmer seas. \"We'll see what they're doing and where they're feeding, and then get into an area where they may well approach us,\" says James Fairbairn, who recently took over running the firm from his father. \"Sometimes they roll on their backs to see us and show their underbelly - it's completely white and you see this massive white thing going under the boat watching us. It's incredible.\" James's father, \"Pops\" Fairbairn, originally a farmer, diversified from agriculture into sea-angling trips and creel fishing - a change that put him in contact with local minke. To his astonishment, the whales would approach his boat, watching him work. He began organising amateur whale-watching expeditions - the first in the UK - using a 7-metre boat with just 12 passengers. They now have two 15-metre vessels: the Sula Beag, which can take 40 passengers and the Sula Mhor, which takes 60.Its success has helped make Mull one of the most successful ecotourism destinations in Britain. It has spawned local rivals who also boast of whale encounters on their sightseeing cruises to Fingal's Cave on Staffa and outlying islands, and helped create a thriving wildlife watching industry on the island - particularly for bird-watchers.Drawn often by Mull's rich population of birds of prey, bird-watchers also now crowd the decks of the whale-watching boats. Seabirds play a key role in these expeditions, which cover a wide area of sea to the north and west of Mull, venturing up to 30km northwards to the island of Eigg.The Manx shearwaters, razorbills, kittiwake and puffins that dart energetically just above the water's surface are an excellent guide to whalefeeding areas: they crowd over the plankton and tiny fish that rise to the surface at the tide lines and \"upswellings\" where tides and currents meet. This is the same food for the minke.Seen from the boats, whose decks rise just a few metres above the surface, the seas between northern Mull, Ardnamurchan Point and Coll to the west are remarkably busy. Shearwaters, their downturned wingtips almost skimming the waves, will fly past in \"V\" formation; razorbills will flash past in a hurry. Puffins - oblivious to the boat - bob on the waves, while black wing-tipped kittiwakes fly overhead.It is a far more intimate and involving experience at sea level - an experience heightened by the Fairbairns' system of using passengers as amateur field workers. There are no whales today - it is quite early in the season. Fairbairn is now waiting to see what this summer delivers. \"You just never know. That's what makes it so exciting.\"sealifesurveys.com", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Wildlife holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Environment", "Travel", "Animals", "Whale watching holidays", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Mull is Britain's whale watching capital"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Braemore Square Country House Loch Broom, Wester Ross, Ross-shire IV23 2RX, 01854 655357 braemoresquare.com \u00a360, single \u00a350 The three-bedroom B&B was built in 1840 as a stage post and was previously part of engineer Sir John Fowler's estate; among other things, he was responsible for the suspension bridge over Corrieshalloch Gorge, a mile from the B&B.Cambo House Kingsbarns, St. Andrews, Fife KY16 8QD, 01333 450054 camboestate.com \u00a394-\u00a3130, single \u00a347-\u00a365 Cambo House is set in the Cambo estate, the home of the Erskine family since 1688. The estate is 1,200 acres and the Victorian mansion was built in 1881. There are two bedrooms and the guest sitting rooms overlooks the fountain and gardens. The beach is a short walk from the estate through woodlands and Golf Links is 200 metres away.Castle Stuart Petty Parish, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 7JH, 01463 790745 \u00a3390, no single occupancy This castle has been in the Stuart family since 1625 and is currently owned by Charles and Elizabeth. There are eight bedrooms, all named after the Scottish clans who fought for Bonnie Prince Charlie in the battle of Culloden, and decorated with their respective tartan. There are secret passages and doors around the castle and the three-turret room at the top of the east tower is said to be haunted. A four-course dinner banquet is included in the price.Castleton House Hotel By Glamis, Angus DD8, 1SJ, 01307 840340 castletonglamis.co.uk \u00a3200-\u00a3240, single \u00a3130-\u00a3150 The house and lawn stand on a medieval motte; the house is 100-years-old, and home to owners Verity and David Webster, as well as their chickens, ducks and Tamworth pigs. There is a garden and orchard, and the fruit and vegetables from here get used in the kitchen. There are six bedrooms available.Craighall Castle Blairgowrie, Perth and Kinross, PH10 7JB, 01250 874749 craighall.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a340 Craighall Castle was built in 1533 for the Rattray family. It is situated on the top of a cliff and overlooks the river Ericht. Current descendants Nicky and Lachie offer two bedrooms and the breakfast they serve a full Scottish.Dinnet House Aboyne, Aberdeenshire, AB34 5LN, 01339 885332 \u00a390-\u00a3100, single \u00a345-\u00a350 The former Victorian shooting lodge stands in 50 acres of private grounds: guests can stay in one of three bedroom, two that overlook the river Dee and one that overlooks the Morven mountain. Hosts Sabrina and Marcus Humphrey can provide dinner for \u00a325, which includes ingredients such as meat and game from the estate farm.Ellangowan St John Street, Creetown, Dumfries and Galloway, DG8 7JF, 01671 820201 ellangowan.co.uk \u00a356-\u00a364, single \u00a334-\u00a336 Ellangowan was featured in the 1973 film The Wicker Man - it was transformed into the Green Man pub and fans of the film often come and have their photo taken at the bar. As well as eight bedrooms, owner Bill Christie has a restaurant where guests can dine in the evening.Ethie Castle Inverkeilor, By Arbroath, Angus, DD11 5SP, 01241 830434 ethiecastle.com \u00a395-\u00a3110, single \u00a375-\u00a390 Ethie Castle was built in the 1300s for the abbot and monks of Arbroath Abbey and is now owned by Kirstin de Morgan. There are thought to be several secret passages in the castle, including one going from the public lounge room, the Cardinal's Room, to the chapel.Glentower Lower Observatory Fortwilliam, Inverness-shire, PH33 6RQ, 01397 704007 glentower.com \u00a376-\u00a390, single \u00a376-\u00a390 Glentower Lower Observatory was built in the late 1800s to complement the observatory on the summit of Ben Nevis. Meteological observations were made from July 1890 until 1904, when funding became an issue. It is now a seven-bedroom B&B run by Trevor and Catriona Rosie. Fort William town centre can be reached in five minutes on foot and Cowhill path and Ben Nevis are about a five-minute drive away.The Grange Grange Road, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 6JF, 01397 705516 thegrange-scotland.co.uk \u00a398-\u00a3110, single \u00a388.20-\u00a399 The Grange is a black and white Victorian house with a small turret and decorative windows, owned by John and Joan Campbell. It is located above Loch Linhe and each of the four bedrooms has views over the loch; the turret room is decorated with French oak furniture and the Robroy room has an original Louis XV king-size bed.Inveresk House 3 Inveresk Village, Musselburgh, East Lothian EH21 7UA, 0131-665 5855 invereskhouse.com \u00a3100, single \u00a365 Inveresk House was built on the site of a Roman settlement and has a passage running underneath it: it is also thought that Oliver Cromwell used the building as his headquarters for two months in the 1650s. Owners Alice and Johnny Chute can take guests on a history tour of the building, which has three bedrooms, a twin, a double and a family room. Guests can have cereals, Scottish porridge, eggs, bacon and toast for breakfast.Old Church of Urquhart Parrandier, Meft Road, Urquhart by Elgin IV30 8NH, 01343 843063 oldchurch.eu \u00a358, single \u00a339 This 19th-century former church has a 70ft-high tower and functioning bell: given advance warning, the owners can toll the bell to mark romantic occasions. There are three bedrooms and two guest lounges and meals are served in the gallery, under the traditional church ceiling: an evening meal can be provided by arrangement.The Old Station Stravithie Bridge, St Andrews, Fife KY16 8LR, 01334 880505 theoldstation.co.uk \u00a390-\u00a3130, single \u00a370 Six of the eight bedrooms at this B&B are located in the main house, a refurbished Victorian railway station: one is a Scottish themed room, another has Oriental-style furniture and art. The other two bedrooms are suites in a converted train carriage in the two-acre garden.Skirling House Skirling, by Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6HD, 01899 860274 skirlinghouse.com \u00a3100-\u00a3125, single \u00a360-\u00a380 Skirling House was designed by Scottish architect Ramsay Traquair for Lord Carmichael, the first governor of Bengal. It took five years to build and is home some of the Lord's artworks, including a 16th-century Florentine carved ceiling in the drawing room. Five bedrooms are available and the breakfast menu includes a cooked meal, kippers and a daily special.Tullibole Castle By Crook of Devon, Kinross, Kinross-shire KY13 0QN, 01577 840236 \u00a390, single \u00a355 The Moncreiff family have owned this Grade A-listed castle since 1747 and current owners Rhoderick and Alison offer guests one twin bedroom, with its own bathroom and the use of the Great Hall as a private sitting room. The property stands in a 260-acre estate where there is the ruins of a medieval church.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Unusual places: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Berry Allt-Na-Subh, Dornie, Kyle of Lochalsh, Ross-shire IV40 8DZ, 01599 588259 \u00a350, single \u00a330 Set in a hamlet of five houses, Joan Ashburner offers two bedrooms, one with a private bathroom and one with a shared bathroom. The house overlooks loch Long and there are several munros nearby. A full Scottish or continental breakfast is provided; dinner, with options including venison and lobster, is offered.  Corranmor House Ardfern, Lochgilphead, Argyll & Bute PA31 8QN, 01852 500609 \u00a376, single \u00a340 This stone house is situated on a 400-acre working farm overlooking Craignish loch. It has one double bedroom with an en suite bathroom and its own sitting room, and one family suite that includes a double room, two single rooms, sitting room and bathroom. Hosts Hew and Barbara Service greet guests with tea and homemade cakes.  Dun Na Mara Benderloch, Oban, Argyll & Bute PA37 1RT, 01631 720233 dunnamara.com \u00a395-\u00a3105, single \u00a355-\u00a365 Dun Na Mara, in the small village of Benderloch, is owned by Mark McPhillips and Suzanne Pole. The Edwardian house overlooks the Isle of Mull and has a garden leading down to a secluded beach. It has five double bedrooms, one twin and one single, all with en suite bathrooms. Breakfast options include a full Scottish breakfast, smoked haddock, and scrambled eggs with spinach.  The Glebe House Law Road, North Berwick, East Lothian EH39 4PL, 01620 892608 glebehouse-nb.co.uk \u00a390, single \u00a365 The three-bedroom Glebe House is a Georgian manse a two-minute walk from North Berwick beach. Both double bedrooms have en suite bathrooms, and one has a four-poster bed. Breakfast is served by host Gwen Scott and includes fruit, cereal, croissants or a cooked dish. The Bass rock, a sea bird nesting site, can be visited by boat from the nearby harbour.  Glenmore Kilmelford, Oban, Argyll & Bute PA34 4XA, 01852 200314 glenmorecountryhouse.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a380, \u00a340-\u00a350 single Glenmore is located at the bottom of a private avenue, five minutes' walk from the west coast. The 19th-century country house was extended in the 1930s and is currently owned by Alasdair and Melissa Oatts. There are two bedrooms; the family room has an en suite bathroom while the double has a separate bathroom. A full cooked or continental breakfast is provided.  Inverugie House Hopeman, Moray IV30 5YB, 01343 830253 inverugiehouse.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a335 This Georgian house is surrounded by woodland and a one and a half acre walled garden. The village, harbour and beaches are a 20-minute walk away. Two bedrooms share a bathroom; the third has an en suite. The B&B is owned by Roddy and Lucy MacKenzie: Roddy is in the whisky business and can advise on distillery trips.  Melfort House Kilmelford, By Oban, Argyll & Bute, PA34 4XD, 01852 200326 melforthouse.co.uk \u00a385-\u00a3110, single \u00a360 Melfort is a Georgian-style house a five-minute walk from Fearnach Bay. For guests arriving at about 4pm, hosts Matthew and Yvonne Anderson serve tea in their drawing room. All three bedrooms have en suite bathrooms and king-size beds. Breakfast choices include kedgeree, Stornoway black pudding, homemade tattie scones, chilli omelettes and seasonal fruit.  18 Queens Terrace 18 Queens Terrace, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QF, 01334 478849 18queensterrace.com \u00a390, single \u00a370 18 Queens Terrace is located in the old town in St Andrews, less than a minute's walk from the town centre. It is a 10-minute walk from both the East Sands and West Sands beaches and the Royal & Ancient golf club. There are four bedrooms and host Jill Hardie serves a continental or cooked breakfast.  Seaview Fionnphort, Isle of Mull PA66 6BL, 01681 700235 iona-bed-breakfast-mull.com \u00a362, single \u00a340 John and Jane Noddings run Seaview, a B&B with views of the nearby beach and the Sound of Iona. Four of the five bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and all have a TV. Birdwatching and boat trips are available nearby.  Straven Guesthouse 3 Brunstane Road, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH15 2DL, 0131-669 5580 stravenguesthouse.com \u00a364, single \u00a342 Mac and Marian McCool run this six-bedroom B&B, less than a minute's walk to Portobello beach and promenade. Free parking is available outside. Breakfast starts with porridge and cream; guests can then choose from options like a full Scottish, continental breakfast or Scottish salmon.  Tanglewood House Ullapool, Ross-shire IV26 2TB, 01854 612059 tanglewoodhouse.co.uk \u00a382-\u00a396, single \u00a366-\u00a373 Set in a three-acre wild garden, Tanglewood overlooks loch Broome and the rocky shore is less than a minute away on foot. It has one double bedroom with a balcony and two twin bedrooms - all have en suite bathrooms and sea views. Host Anne Holloway serves a breakfast of local smoked fish, locally produced sausages and porridge with cream. She can also provide an evening meal or picnic.  Tigh An Dochais 13 Harrapool, Isle of Skye IV49 9AQ, 01471 820022 skyebedbreakfast.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a355 Tigh An Dochais is a modern building located on a narrow strip of land between the road and the sea with views of Broadford Bay. There are three bedrooms with en suite bathrooms and sea views. Breakfast is served in an upstairs lounge and comprises a traditional cooked breakfast with locally produced sausages, local haddock or kippers and black pudding from Stornaway. Dinner can be provided by arrangement.  Water's Edge Canonbury Terrace, Fortrose, Ross-shire IV10 8TT, 01381 621202 watersedge.uk.com \u00a390, single \u00a375 At the end of Gillian and Bill Lee's garden there is a small beach, and all three guest bedrooms have balconies and views across the sea. Local dolphin-watching trips sail past the house. The breakfast room also overlooks the beach and is the setting for cooked, fish and continental breakfasts. Inverness is a 15-minute drive away.  Wemyss House Bayfield, Tain, Ross-shire IV19 1QW, 01862 851212 wemysshouse.com \u00a380, single \u00a380 Wemyss House overlooks the Moray Firth river and is a mile from the Sands of Nigg. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms and are decorated with furniture made by co-owner Stuart Clifford. Co-owner Christine Asher makes a Highland breakfast for guests which includes home-baked bread and preserves, organic porridge and eggs laid by the guest house's own hens. Supper is available from \u00a315.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: The coast: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blairbeich PlantationGartocharn, Loch Lomond, Dunbartonshire G83 8RR, 01389 830257blairbeich.com\u00a370-\u00a3100, single \u00a360-\u00a390Malla Macdonald runs this two-bedroom B&B, which is surrounded by trees and located next to a private lake in the Trossachs national park: Loch Lomond is a mile and-a-half away. Both bedrooms have an en suite and guests are served a full Scottish or continental breakfast. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a335: Malla incorporates dishes from her native Sweden.Brook Linn Country HouseLeny Feus, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8AU, 01877 330103brooklinn-scotland.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a335-\u00a340This 150-year-old Victorian house is situated on the edge of Callander town, in the Trossachs national park, and is surrounded by two acres of grounds. It has four bedrooms, all with en suites. Stirling castle is 20 minutes in the car. Owners Derek and Fiona House serve a full Scottish breakfast each morning.Chlenry FarmhouseCastle Kennedy, Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 8SL, 01776 705316chlenryfarmhouse.com\u00a365, single \u00a340Chlenry Farmhouse is situated on the Southern Upland Way walk. There are three bedrooms: the twin and double share a bathroom, while the second twin room has private facilities. A cooked breakfast is included, and hosts David and Ginny Wolseley Brinton can provide a four-course dinner for \u00a327.50 or a light supper for \u00a315.Craigard Guest HouseInvergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501258 craigard.saltire.org\u00a355, single \u00a327.50Andrew and Joy Middleton have seven bedrooms at their Victorian property, five that have en suites. There are a number of marked woodland paths around the local area and the Great Glen Way is a few miles away. Walkers can also arrange to be picked up from there nearby Loch Oich, another popular walking destination. Other popular walking destinations include the many Munros in the area. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a311 by prior arrangement.Craig VillaLoch Lomond, Dalmally, COUNTY PA33 1AX, 01838 200255 craigvilla.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a360, single \u00a325-\u00a330Craig Villa is a family-run guest house that stands in an acre and-a-half of grounds; it is 11 miles from the Loch Lomond national park and is surrounded by an area well-suited to hill walking. The property has nine bedrooms and a dining room that overlooks mountains; there is a restaurant 400 metres away that serves evening meals.Distillery HouseNevis Bridge, Fort William, Highland PH33 6LR, 01397 700103stayinfortwilliam.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a3104, single \u00a348Philip and Linda Stuart's B&B is set in the grounds of the old Glenlochy distillery against the backdrop of Ben Nevis. It is a five-minute walk from the West Highland Way and has 10 bedrooms, each with an en suite. Complimentary whisky and shortbread is served in the reading lounge, where books are available on local history and whisky trails.FincraigsKilmany, Cupar, Fife KY15 4QQ, 01382 330256\u00a380, single \u00a340Fincraig is an 18th-century farmhouse with the North East Fife cycling Route going past the house. It is also two miles from the Firth of Tay's coastal walks. The double bedroom has an en suite while the twin room has a separate bathroom. There is a drawing room with a log fire and a TV and a guest sitting room.Frennich HouseBrig O'Turk, Kilmahog, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8HT, 01877 376274frennich-house.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a356, single \u00a335-\u00a340There are two bedrooms available in Frennich House, run by Anne and Hugh Dobbins. A cooked breakfast, including homemade scones, is provided. The house is set within the boundary of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, which boasts many walks and trails.Lochside CottageFasnacloich, Appin, Argyll and Bute PA38 4BJ, 01631 730216lochsidecottage.net\u00a364-\u00a376, single \u00a332-\u00a338This cottage has a private loch at the end of the garden and has views across the hills of Loch Etive and the Glencoe mountains. The district of Appin is mountainous, offering walks, climbs and pony trekking. The owners, Stella and Earle Broadbent, can help guests plan routes. There are three bedrooms.Newtonmill HouseBy Brechin, Angus DD9 7PZ, 01356 622533newtonmillhouse.co.uk\u00a396, single \u00a358This 18th-century property is 20- minute drive from Glamis Castle. The house has two bedrooms, and hosts Stephen and Rose Rickman serve a full Scottish breakfast; fruitfrom the walled garden is also available. The house is two miles from the Blue Door walk.No.3 Candacraig SquareStrathdon, Aberdeenshire AB36 8XT, 01975 651 472candacraig.com\u00a380, single \u00a347.50There are three bedrooms at this former laundry that served Candacraig House, which is located in the Cairngorms national park. Two have en suite bathrooms and one has separate bath and shower. For breakfast, there is a choice of porridge, eggs and fruit, as well as traditional Scottish items, such as smoked fresh herring, Finnan Haddie and Arbroath smokies.Tir Alainn8 Upper Breakish, Isle of Skye IV42 8PY, 01471 822366visitskye.com\u00a370, single \u00a335Pam and Ron Davison run this three-bedroom B&B, which has sea views and a guest lounge stocked with books and whiskies. Ron is a professional mountain guide and runs walks of the nearby coast and hills that vary in length and difficulty and can include historic and natural points of interest.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Walking: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The minke whale can be an inquisitive beast. At its boldest, it will swim over to inspect the small boat idling nearby, displaying its bright white underbelly as it twists over and swims under the hull, the better to see its admirers. For the amateur whale watcher visiting Mull, it is the defining moment of their marine safari.Minke - one of the world's smaller whales - are regular visitors to the shallow inshore waters around the Hebridean island, feeding along the tide lines of the seas warmed by the Gulf Stream coming in from the Atlantic. The animal surfaces with a sudden jet of water, its sleek back and petite curved dorsal fin rising above the water.Basking sharks are also regular visitors, drawn by the plumes of plankton that are pushed up close to the surface by tides and currents. Harbour porpoises and dolphins are a permanent presence around Mull and its junior sisters Coll, Tiree, Treshish and Staffa. These highly sociable creatures often hug the coast in the quiet, sheltered waters of the Sound of Mull in groups. Standing on the observation deck of the Sula Beag, the main whale-watching vessel run by Mull's largest marine tours company, Sea Life Surveys, whale watchers are turned into hunters - scouring the seas for the first glimpse of whale or dolphin. On one such safari in early May - at the beginning of the island's whale-watching season, when the seas are choppy and whipped by cool winds into foam-tipped waves - we picked out several porpoise as their snouts and domed foreheads briefly broke the surface.And once or twice each summer, the hefty black and white form of an orca, or killer whale, will be seen breaking the waves. Sperm whales have been spotted and once in the last few years, just once, local whale watchers have seen a huge fin whale - the size of several double-decker buses - surfacing in deeper waters to the west. But minke are the chief attraction for the day-long expeditions organised by Sea Life Surveys, a family firm that pioneered whale watching in Britain, run from quayside offices in the Hebridean island's main town, Tobermory. Minke are now being sighted up to half a dozen times a day, as the summer season brings warmer waters and calmer seas. \"We'll see what they're doing and where they're feeding, and then get into an area where they may well approach us,\" says James Fairbairn, who recently took over running the firm from his father. \"Sometimes they roll on their backs to see us and show their underbelly - it's completely white and you see this massive white thing going under the boat watching us. It's incredible.\" James's father, \"Pops\" Fairbairn, originally a farmer, diversified from agriculture into sea-angling trips and creel fishing - a change that put him in contact with local minke. To his astonishment, the whales would approach his boat, watching him work. He began organising amateur whale-watching expeditions - the first in the UK - using a 7-metre boat with just 12 passengers. They now have two 15-metre vessels: the Sula Beag, which can take 40 passengers and the Sula Mhor, which takes 60.Its success has helped make Mull one of the most successful ecotourism destinations in Britain. It has spawned local rivals who also boast of whale encounters on their sightseeing cruises to Fingal's Cave on Staffa and outlying islands, and helped create a thriving wildlife watching industry on the island - particularly for bird-watchers.Drawn often by Mull's rich population of birds of prey, bird-watchers also now crowd the decks of the whale-watching boats. Seabirds play a key role in these expeditions, which cover a wide area of sea to the north and west of Mull, venturing up to 30km northwards to the island of Eigg.The Manx shearwaters, razorbills, kittiwake and puffins that dart energetically just above the water's surface are an excellent guide to whalefeeding areas: they crowd over the plankton and tiny fish that rise to the surface at the tide lines and \"upswellings\" where tides and currents meet. This is the same food for the minke.Seen from the boats, whose decks rise just a few metres above the surface, the seas between northern Mull, Ardnamurchan Point and Coll to the west are remarkably busy. Shearwaters, their downturned wingtips almost skimming the waves, will fly past in \"V\" formation; razorbills will flash past in a hurry. Puffins - oblivious to the boat - bob on the waves, while black wing-tipped kittiwakes fly overhead.It is a far more intimate and involving experience at sea level - an experience heightened by the Fairbairns' system of using passengers as amateur field workers. There are no whales today - it is quite early in the season. Fairbairn is now waiting to see what this summer delivers. \"You just never know. That's what makes it so exciting.\"sealifesurveys.com", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Wildlife holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Environment", "Travel", "Animals", "Whale watching holidays", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Mull is Britain's whale watching capital"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Braemore Square Country House Loch Broom, Wester Ross, Ross-shire IV23 2RX, 01854 655357 braemoresquare.com \u00a360, single \u00a350 The three-bedroom B&B was built in 1840 as a stage post and was previously part of engineer Sir John Fowler's estate; among other things, he was responsible for the suspension bridge over Corrieshalloch Gorge, a mile from the B&B.Cambo House Kingsbarns, St. Andrews, Fife KY16 8QD, 01333 450054 camboestate.com \u00a394-\u00a3130, single \u00a347-\u00a365 Cambo House is set in the Cambo estate, the home of the Erskine family since 1688. The estate is 1,200 acres and the Victorian mansion was built in 1881. There are two bedrooms and the guest sitting rooms overlooks the fountain and gardens. The beach is a short walk from the estate through woodlands and Golf Links is 200 metres away.Castle Stuart Petty Parish, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 7JH, 01463 790745 \u00a3390, no single occupancy This castle has been in the Stuart family since 1625 and is currently owned by Charles and Elizabeth. There are eight bedrooms, all named after the Scottish clans who fought for Bonnie Prince Charlie in the battle of Culloden, and decorated with their respective tartan. There are secret passages and doors around the castle and the three-turret room at the top of the east tower is said to be haunted. A four-course dinner banquet is included in the price.Castleton House Hotel By Glamis, Angus DD8, 1SJ, 01307 840340 castletonglamis.co.uk \u00a3200-\u00a3240, single \u00a3130-\u00a3150 The house and lawn stand on a medieval motte; the house is 100-years-old, and home to owners Verity and David Webster, as well as their chickens, ducks and Tamworth pigs. There is a garden and orchard, and the fruit and vegetables from here get used in the kitchen. There are six bedrooms available.Craighall Castle Blairgowrie, Perth and Kinross, PH10 7JB, 01250 874749 craighall.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a340 Craighall Castle was built in 1533 for the Rattray family. It is situated on the top of a cliff and overlooks the river Ericht. Current descendants Nicky and Lachie offer two bedrooms and the breakfast they serve a full Scottish.Dinnet House Aboyne, Aberdeenshire, AB34 5LN, 01339 885332 \u00a390-\u00a3100, single \u00a345-\u00a350 The former Victorian shooting lodge stands in 50 acres of private grounds: guests can stay in one of three bedroom, two that overlook the river Dee and one that overlooks the Morven mountain. Hosts Sabrina and Marcus Humphrey can provide dinner for \u00a325, which includes ingredients such as meat and game from the estate farm.Ellangowan St John Street, Creetown, Dumfries and Galloway, DG8 7JF, 01671 820201 ellangowan.co.uk \u00a356-\u00a364, single \u00a334-\u00a336 Ellangowan was featured in the 1973 film The Wicker Man - it was transformed into the Green Man pub and fans of the film often come and have their photo taken at the bar. As well as eight bedrooms, owner Bill Christie has a restaurant where guests can dine in the evening.Ethie Castle Inverkeilor, By Arbroath, Angus, DD11 5SP, 01241 830434 ethiecastle.com \u00a395-\u00a3110, single \u00a375-\u00a390 Ethie Castle was built in the 1300s for the abbot and monks of Arbroath Abbey and is now owned by Kirstin de Morgan. There are thought to be several secret passages in the castle, including one going from the public lounge room, the Cardinal's Room, to the chapel.Glentower Lower Observatory Fortwilliam, Inverness-shire, PH33 6RQ, 01397 704007 glentower.com \u00a376-\u00a390, single \u00a376-\u00a390 Glentower Lower Observatory was built in the late 1800s to complement the observatory on the summit of Ben Nevis. Meteological observations were made from July 1890 until 1904, when funding became an issue. It is now a seven-bedroom B&B run by Trevor and Catriona Rosie. Fort William town centre can be reached in five minutes on foot and Cowhill path and Ben Nevis are about a five-minute drive away.The Grange Grange Road, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 6JF, 01397 705516 thegrange-scotland.co.uk \u00a398-\u00a3110, single \u00a388.20-\u00a399 The Grange is a black and white Victorian house with a small turret and decorative windows, owned by John and Joan Campbell. It is located above Loch Linhe and each of the four bedrooms has views over the loch; the turret room is decorated with French oak furniture and the Robroy room has an original Louis XV king-size bed.Inveresk House 3 Inveresk Village, Musselburgh, East Lothian EH21 7UA, 0131-665 5855 invereskhouse.com \u00a3100, single \u00a365 Inveresk House was built on the site of a Roman settlement and has a passage running underneath it: it is also thought that Oliver Cromwell used the building as his headquarters for two months in the 1650s. Owners Alice and Johnny Chute can take guests on a history tour of the building, which has three bedrooms, a twin, a double and a family room. Guests can have cereals, Scottish porridge, eggs, bacon and toast for breakfast.Old Church of Urquhart Parrandier, Meft Road, Urquhart by Elgin IV30 8NH, 01343 843063 oldchurch.eu \u00a358, single \u00a339 This 19th-century former church has a 70ft-high tower and functioning bell: given advance warning, the owners can toll the bell to mark romantic occasions. There are three bedrooms and two guest lounges and meals are served in the gallery, under the traditional church ceiling: an evening meal can be provided by arrangement.The Old Station Stravithie Bridge, St Andrews, Fife KY16 8LR, 01334 880505 theoldstation.co.uk \u00a390-\u00a3130, single \u00a370 Six of the eight bedrooms at this B&B are located in the main house, a refurbished Victorian railway station: one is a Scottish themed room, another has Oriental-style furniture and art. The other two bedrooms are suites in a converted train carriage in the two-acre garden.Skirling House Skirling, by Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6HD, 01899 860274 skirlinghouse.com \u00a3100-\u00a3125, single \u00a360-\u00a380 Skirling House was designed by Scottish architect Ramsay Traquair for Lord Carmichael, the first governor of Bengal. It took five years to build and is home some of the Lord's artworks, including a 16th-century Florentine carved ceiling in the drawing room. Five bedrooms are available and the breakfast menu includes a cooked meal, kippers and a daily special.Tullibole Castle By Crook of Devon, Kinross, Kinross-shire KY13 0QN, 01577 840236 \u00a390, single \u00a355 The Moncreiff family have owned this Grade A-listed castle since 1747 and current owners Rhoderick and Alison offer guests one twin bedroom, with its own bathroom and the use of the Great Hall as a private sitting room. The property stands in a 260-acre estate where there is the ruins of a medieval church.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Unusual places: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Berry Allt-Na-Subh, Dornie, Kyle of Lochalsh, Ross-shire IV40 8DZ, 01599 588259 \u00a350, single \u00a330 Set in a hamlet of five houses, Joan Ashburner offers two bedrooms, one with a private bathroom and one with a shared bathroom. The house overlooks loch Long and there are several munros nearby. A full Scottish or continental breakfast is provided; dinner, with options including venison and lobster, is offered.  Corranmor House Ardfern, Lochgilphead, Argyll & Bute PA31 8QN, 01852 500609 \u00a376, single \u00a340 This stone house is situated on a 400-acre working farm overlooking Craignish loch. It has one double bedroom with an en suite bathroom and its own sitting room, and one family suite that includes a double room, two single rooms, sitting room and bathroom. Hosts Hew and Barbara Service greet guests with tea and homemade cakes.  Dun Na Mara Benderloch, Oban, Argyll & Bute PA37 1RT, 01631 720233 dunnamara.com \u00a395-\u00a3105, single \u00a355-\u00a365 Dun Na Mara, in the small village of Benderloch, is owned by Mark McPhillips and Suzanne Pole. The Edwardian house overlooks the Isle of Mull and has a garden leading down to a secluded beach. It has five double bedrooms, one twin and one single, all with en suite bathrooms. Breakfast options include a full Scottish breakfast, smoked haddock, and scrambled eggs with spinach.  The Glebe House Law Road, North Berwick, East Lothian EH39 4PL, 01620 892608 glebehouse-nb.co.uk \u00a390, single \u00a365 The three-bedroom Glebe House is a Georgian manse a two-minute walk from North Berwick beach. Both double bedrooms have en suite bathrooms, and one has a four-poster bed. Breakfast is served by host Gwen Scott and includes fruit, cereal, croissants or a cooked dish. The Bass rock, a sea bird nesting site, can be visited by boat from the nearby harbour.  Glenmore Kilmelford, Oban, Argyll & Bute PA34 4XA, 01852 200314 glenmorecountryhouse.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a380, \u00a340-\u00a350 single Glenmore is located at the bottom of a private avenue, five minutes' walk from the west coast. The 19th-century country house was extended in the 1930s and is currently owned by Alasdair and Melissa Oatts. There are two bedrooms; the family room has an en suite bathroom while the double has a separate bathroom. A full cooked or continental breakfast is provided.  Inverugie House Hopeman, Moray IV30 5YB, 01343 830253 inverugiehouse.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a335 This Georgian house is surrounded by woodland and a one and a half acre walled garden. The village, harbour and beaches are a 20-minute walk away. Two bedrooms share a bathroom; the third has an en suite. The B&B is owned by Roddy and Lucy MacKenzie: Roddy is in the whisky business and can advise on distillery trips.  Melfort House Kilmelford, By Oban, Argyll & Bute, PA34 4XD, 01852 200326 melforthouse.co.uk \u00a385-\u00a3110, single \u00a360 Melfort is a Georgian-style house a five-minute walk from Fearnach Bay. For guests arriving at about 4pm, hosts Matthew and Yvonne Anderson serve tea in their drawing room. All three bedrooms have en suite bathrooms and king-size beds. Breakfast choices include kedgeree, Stornoway black pudding, homemade tattie scones, chilli omelettes and seasonal fruit.  18 Queens Terrace 18 Queens Terrace, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QF, 01334 478849 18queensterrace.com \u00a390, single \u00a370 18 Queens Terrace is located in the old town in St Andrews, less than a minute's walk from the town centre. It is a 10-minute walk from both the East Sands and West Sands beaches and the Royal & Ancient golf club. There are four bedrooms and host Jill Hardie serves a continental or cooked breakfast.  Seaview Fionnphort, Isle of Mull PA66 6BL, 01681 700235 iona-bed-breakfast-mull.com \u00a362, single \u00a340 John and Jane Noddings run Seaview, a B&B with views of the nearby beach and the Sound of Iona. Four of the five bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and all have a TV. Birdwatching and boat trips are available nearby.  Straven Guesthouse 3 Brunstane Road, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH15 2DL, 0131-669 5580 stravenguesthouse.com \u00a364, single \u00a342 Mac and Marian McCool run this six-bedroom B&B, less than a minute's walk to Portobello beach and promenade. Free parking is available outside. Breakfast starts with porridge and cream; guests can then choose from options like a full Scottish, continental breakfast or Scottish salmon.  Tanglewood House Ullapool, Ross-shire IV26 2TB, 01854 612059 tanglewoodhouse.co.uk \u00a382-\u00a396, single \u00a366-\u00a373 Set in a three-acre wild garden, Tanglewood overlooks loch Broome and the rocky shore is less than a minute away on foot. It has one double bedroom with a balcony and two twin bedrooms - all have en suite bathrooms and sea views. Host Anne Holloway serves a breakfast of local smoked fish, locally produced sausages and porridge with cream. She can also provide an evening meal or picnic.  Tigh An Dochais 13 Harrapool, Isle of Skye IV49 9AQ, 01471 820022 skyebedbreakfast.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a355 Tigh An Dochais is a modern building located on a narrow strip of land between the road and the sea with views of Broadford Bay. There are three bedrooms with en suite bathrooms and sea views. Breakfast is served in an upstairs lounge and comprises a traditional cooked breakfast with locally produced sausages, local haddock or kippers and black pudding from Stornaway. Dinner can be provided by arrangement.  Water's Edge Canonbury Terrace, Fortrose, Ross-shire IV10 8TT, 01381 621202 watersedge.uk.com \u00a390, single \u00a375 At the end of Gillian and Bill Lee's garden there is a small beach, and all three guest bedrooms have balconies and views across the sea. Local dolphin-watching trips sail past the house. The breakfast room also overlooks the beach and is the setting for cooked, fish and continental breakfasts. Inverness is a 15-minute drive away.  Wemyss House Bayfield, Tain, Ross-shire IV19 1QW, 01862 851212 wemysshouse.com \u00a380, single \u00a380 Wemyss House overlooks the Moray Firth river and is a mile from the Sands of Nigg. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms and are decorated with furniture made by co-owner Stuart Clifford. Co-owner Christine Asher makes a Highland breakfast for guests which includes home-baked bread and preserves, organic porridge and eggs laid by the guest house's own hens. Supper is available from \u00a315.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: The coast: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Ardconnel House  21 Ardconnel Street, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 3EU, 01463 240455, ardconnel-inverness.co.uk \u00a365, single \u00a335  The city centre, the main shopping centre and Inverness castle are all within walking distance of this six-bedroom B&B. There are two double rooms, two single rooms, one family room and one twin room. Breakfast can be a self-service buffet or a full Scottish.  Ardmor House  74 Pilrig Street, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH6 5AS, 0131-554 4944,  ardmorhouse.com  \u00a390, single \u00a360  Ardmor House is located opposite Pilrig park and is a 15-minute walk from Princes Street, the main shopping area in Edinburgh. The five bedrooms all have en suites and a flat-screen TV. Breakfast includes a buffet of items like cheese, fruit, oatcakes, smoked salmon and potato waffles.  Aslar Guest House  120 North Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AF, 01334 473460,  aslar.com  \u00a390, single \u00a345-\u00a380  Owners Stan and Mary Hastie serve breakfast in a room overlooking the buildings of St Andrews University: this has been recently refurbished. They also offer six bedrooms with en suites, wireless internet and flat-screen TVs. The town centre is a five-minute walk away.  Avalon Guest House  Glenurquhart Road, Inverness IV3 5PB, 01463 239075,  inverness-loch-ness.co.uk  \u00a360, single \u00a350  Avalon is a six-bedrooms B&B located a 10-minute walk from the city centre and a five-minute drive from Loch Ness. Each room has just been decorated and now contains a flat-screen TV, complimentary wireless internet and Freeview. There is a large guest car park.  Barrisdale Guest House  115 Randolph Road, Glasgow, Lanarkshire G11 7DS, 0141-339 7589,  barrisdale-bnb.co.uk  \u00a350, single \u00a330  Set in a restored Victorian town house, Barrisdale's three bedrooms have TVs, maid service and complimentary tea and coffee. A continental breakfast of pastries, juice and fruit is available. The bed and breakfast is near the Kelvingrove galleries and the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre, and is a 12-minute train ride away from the city centre.  Butler's Guest House  122 Crown Street, Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire AB11 6HJ, 01224 212411,  butlersguesthouse.com  \u00a360, single \u00a355  This B&B offers five bedrooms with en suites and two standard bedrooms. Laundry, drying and ironing services are available, as is wireless internet. The standard breakfast includes fruit, yoghurt, toast and cereal but for an extra \u00a35, a hot breakfast comprising bacon, eggs and sausage can be provided.  Craigmore  20 Craigs Road, Corstophine, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH12 8EL, 0131-339 4225,  fourstaredinburgh.com  \u00a360, single \u00a345  Craigmore is a two-bedroom B&B run by Rae and Peter Mackenzie. It is located in west Edinburgh and the city centre is a 15-minute bus ride away and the airport is a seven-minute journey. A full Irish breakfast is cooked to order and the B&B can offer a snack of homemade soup and rolls in the evenings.  Dunmurray Lodge  72 Bonnethill Road, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ED, 01796 473624,  dunmurray.co.uk  \u00a360, single \u00a345  Dunmurray Lodge was originally built for the town doctor, but now serves as a four-bedroom B&B run by Irene and Tony Willmore. Each of the rooms has an en suite bathroom and two of the rooms overlook Pitlochry town. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from several distilleries.  The Flower House  33 St Vincent Crescent, Glasgow, Lanarkshire G3 8NG, 0141-204 2846  \u00a360, single \u00a340  The Flower House is set in a 19th-century listed building on the edge of the city centre. It is located near the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre, the Kelvingrove Art Galleries and Museum and Glasgow University. The house is decorated with antiques and the two bedrooms have TVs.  Mardon  37 Kenneth Street, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV3 5DH, 01463 231005,  mardonguesthouse.co.uk  \u00a364, single \u00a332  Mardon is located in Inverness city centre and is run by Chris and Val Skelton. As a qualified nutritional therapist, Val offers therapy sessions including reflexology, Indian head massage and immuno-lymphatic therapy. The six bedrooms have en suites and one is a family room that can sleep four.  Melness Guest House  8 Old Edinburgh Road, Inverness-shire IV23 HF, 01463 220963,  melnessie.co.uk  \u00a370, single \u00a370  Melness Guest House's two bedrooms have a private bathroom, a TV and wireless internet access. Breakfast includes porridge or cereal followed by a full English and owners Joy and Raymond Joyce will make a packed breakfast for guests planning to leave early. The B&B is within five minutes walk of Inverness Castle.  Southside Guest House  8 Newington Road, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH9 1QS, 0131-668 4422,  southsideguesthouse.co.uk  \u00a390, single \u00a365  Southside is a 25-minute walk from Edinburgh castle. The B&B is a Victorian house and has eight bedrooms, a large DVD collection and wireless internet connection. Breakfast comprises smoked salmon, fruit and pastries.  Trafford Bank  96 Fairfield Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV3 5LL, 01463 241414,  traffordbankguesthouse.co.uk  \u00a380-\u00a3110, single \u00a360-\u00a380  The B&B is five miles from Loch Ness and has five bedrooms: a flat-screen TV, DVD player, iPod dock and refrigerator can be found in each room and guests can eat fruit, porridge, eggs, haggis, black pudding, cheese or cold meats for breakfast in a conservatory overlooking the garden. Last year the B&B was named guest accommodation of 2007-08 in Scotland and Northern Ireland by the AA.  \"Luxurious accommodation and Highland hospitality go hand in hand at Trafford Bank. Lorraine's flair for interior design has produced a mixture of antique and contemporary furniture and lighting throughout the house.\"  Windmill House  Coltbridge Gardens, Edinburgh EH12 6AQ, 0131-346 0024  \u00a3120, single \u00a375-\u00a380  This is a three-bedroom Georgian house run by Michael and Vivien Scott. Each bedroom has an en suite and it is surrounded by two acres of garden which includes a stone windmill that is home to a family of badgers. The B&B is about a mile from the city centre. ", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Towns and cities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Albony Guest House 4 Blair Terrace, Portpatrick, Galloway DG9 8SY, 01776 810989albonyguesthouse.co.uk \u00a355, single \u00a355 Diane and Andy Wills' B&B is 40 metres from the harbour, the central attraction in the village of Portpatrick, and has two double bedrooms with en suites. There are antique shops, general stores and pubs and restaurants in the village, as well as a pitch and putt green. Children are welcome and a travel cot and high chair can be provided; Diane is a registered childminder and this service is also available.Ardglas Guest House Lochinver, Sutherland IV27 4JB, 01571 844257ardglas.co.uk \u00a346, single \u00a330 Arthur Quigley's B&B is located in the fishing village of Lochinver and many of the rooms in the house have sea views or look across the mountains. Of the eight bedrooms, there is one single, five twin/doubles and two family rooms. The village offers a few shops, a bistro restaurant and two pubs.Boath House Auldearn, Nairn, nr Inverness, IV12 5TE, 01667 454896boath-house.com \u00a3220-\u00a3300, single \u00a3180 This eight-bedroom Georgian mansion is run by Wendy and Don Matheson and is set in 20 acres of grounds. There is a restaurant on the premises and both the breakfast and evening menu change daily. The house is a mile and a half from Nairn where there are a number of golf courses.Bridge House Well Road, Moffat, Dumfries, DG10 9JT, 01683 220558bridgehousemoffat.co.uk \u00a365-\u00a395, single \u00a345 Carol and Michael Rithie's Victorian property lies in gardens in a quiet residential area; it has seven bedrooms with en suites, one a family room and another with a four-poster bed. The dining room is open to the public as well as guests.Chlachain Inn Davies Brae Mallaig, Inverness-shire PH41 4QY, 01687 460289westscotlandinn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a360 Owners Phillip and Maggie Hunkin offer three bedrooms. As the village of Mallaig is a working fishing village, breakfast can be locally caught kippers as well as a full Scottish meal; the evening meals served in the bar-restaurant also include haddock, prawns, mussels and fresh salmon. The property was built in 1900 and the name Chlachain means \"stone house\". Craigroyston Dalmally, Argyll PA33 1AA, 01838 200234craigroyston.com \u00a348, single \u00a324 Craigroyston is an Edwardian villa in the village of Dalmally, home to Sandra and Tim Boardman. There is one double bedroom with an en suite, and a twin and a single that share a bathroom. The house has views of the surrounding hills and mountains, and wildlife spotted includes three kinds of deer, buzzards and a variety of birds.Dall Lodge Country House Main Street, Killin, Perthshire FK21 8TN, 01567 820217dalllodge.co.uk \u00a350-\u00a376, single \u00a330-\u00a335 Located on the outskirts of the village of Killin, Dall Lodge is right next to the river Lochay and has its own mooring. It has views of the surrounding mountains, including Ben Lawers, the highest mountain in Perthshire, and is half a mile from Loch Tay. All nine bedrooms have en suites and breakfast is a traditional cooked meal.The Dower House Highfield, Muir of Ord, by Dingwall, Ross-shire IV6 7XN, 01463 870090thedowerhouse.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a370 There are four bedrooms available here and a full Scottish breakfast is laid on each morning using freshly laid eggs from the owners' hens. The house is set at the foot of the Black Isle, near Inverness and is run by Robyn and Mena Aitchison.Ladywell House Falkland, Fife KY15 7DE, 01337 858414ladywellhousefife.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a345 This property was built in 1804 and was previously owned by Frances Shand-Kydd, Princess Diana's mother. One room was designed specifically for Diana, and owners Duncan and Camilla Heaton-Armstrong have left it as it was. There are three bedrooms, and cots and highchairs are available. Local attractions include Falkland Palace, St Andrews and the British golf museum, Knockhill racing circuit and Crail Pottery.Moorfield House Deshar Road, Boat of Garten, Inverness-shire PH24 3BN, 01479 831646moorfieldhouse.com \u00a372, single \u00a345 Gillian and Harvey Harris provide a breakfast of homemade muesli, fruit compote, smoked salmon and grilled kippers, and a full Scottish, among other things. The village has a golf course and guests receive a \u00a35 discount for green fees: storage for golf clubs is availble. The six bedrooms each have an en suite.Old Mayen Rothiemay, Huntly. Aberdeeshire AB54 7NL, 01466 711276 \u00a380, single \u00a345 Old Mayen is a country house by a farm and that overlooks a valley. There are two bedrooms: two doubles, both with their own bathrooms. The full Scottish breakfast can be taken outside in the summer. There is a castle in Huntly, 15 minutes' drive away.Shorefield Guest House Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582444shorefield-house.com \u00a374-\u00a398, single \u00a349 Shorefield House is situated at the head of Loch Greshornish, is a 20-minute drive from Portree and 10-minutes from Dunvegan castle. Of the four bedrooms, one is suitable for guests in wheelchairs and one is a family room that has a king-size bed, a single bed and a pullout bed. Breakfast can be continental, vegetarian, traditional Scottish grill or local fish.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Villages: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "", "tags": ["Green travel", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Eco: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Airdabhaigh Uppertown, Carinish, North Uist, Western Isles HS6 5HL, 01876 580611calanas.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a322-\u00a325 Airdabhaigh is a restored croft house with two bedrooms that share a bathroom and guest sitting room. Host Flora MacDonald runs arts and crafts workshops that include dying, weaving, printing and painting. Breakfast includes fresh fruit and eggs from local farms.Ardgarry Farm Faichem, Invergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501226 ardgarryfarm.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a350 Joan Fleming manages Ardgarry, a small working farm close to the Great Glen Way. Guests can hire mountain bikes for \u00a310 a day from the house. White water rafting is also available on the nearby river Garry. The two bedrooms here have en suites and a satellite TV.Ardlogie Guest House Dalfaber Road Aviemore Inverness-shire PH22 1PU, 01479 810747ardlogie.co.uk \u00a356, single \u00a338 When you stay at the five-bedroom Ardlogie you get free passes to the local country club: there is a golf course, a swimming pool, jacuzzi, sauna and gym and access to salmon and trout fishing at the river Spey. The garden also has a petanque pitch (a type of boules) and the house has wireless internet.Ballachulish House and Golf Course Ballachulish, Argyll and Bute PH49 4JX, 01855 811266 ballachulishhouse.com \u00a3147-\u00a3221, single \u00a395 This 17th-century country estate has views of Loch Linnhe and the nearby Morvern hills and has its own golf course three minutes walk from the main house, which guests are welcome to use. Nine holes cost \u00a314 and 18 cost \u00a320. There are eight bedrooms with en suites and a Michelin-starred restaurant.Balrymonth 6 Balrymonth Court, St Andrews, Fife KY16 XT, 01334 470855 balrymonthbandb.co.uk \u00a375-\u00a380, single \u00a360-\u00a365 Elaine Cameron runs tailor-made seven to nine-day golf tours around Scotland: these cost from \u00a32,400 for an eight-day trip for two people and include collection from a Scottish airport, a personal driver, accommodation, a full Scottish breakfast and all golf fees. There are three bedrooms.Broad Bay House Back Isle of Lewis HS2 0LQ Western Isles, 01851 820990 broadbayhouse.co.uk \u00a3129-\u00a3145, single \u00a399-\u00a3115 Broad Bay House is 20 metres from the beach and has four bedrooms; one has also been designed for guests with disabilities. Owner Ian Fordham offers day-long tours of the islands for \u00a3120-\u00a3140, visiting beaches and beauty spots. There is a telescope in the lounge that looks towards the shore where residents can spot birds, seals and other wildlife.Castlemount 2 The Scores, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AR, 01334 475579 castlemount.net \u00a390, single \u00a380 Castlemount is an threebedroom Edwardian house opposite St Andrews castle. The B&B offers a number of golf packages for the nearby Old Course golf course, which also includes other courses such as the Jubilee and the Strathtyrum.Cavens Country House Kirkbean by Dumfries DG2 8AA, 01387 880234 cavens.com \u00a3150-\u00a3195, single \u00a3135 Located on the Solway coast and set in six acres of private gardens, Cavens has eight bedrooms and is run by Angus Fordyce. Angus can arrange clay pigeon shooting and trout fishing and he runs special weekends throughout the year: bird watching weekends and wine weekends cost about \u00a3500 for two.Clachan Geal Coishletter, Edinbane, Isle of Skye IV51 9PW, 01470 582379 clachan-geal.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a332 Lynne Howarth runs Clachan Geal, a two-bedroom B&B. The house has a complementary therapies studio where guests can book reflexology, Indian head massage and hopi ear candle treatments. Breakfast is a full Scottish with eggs from the B&B's own hens.Cragganmore House Ballindalloch Banffshire AB37 9AB, 01807 500359 cragganmore-house.com \u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a335-\u00a345 Tony and Helen Allcott run Cragganmore, a four-bedroom B&B that has views of the river Spey and the mountain Ben Rinnes. Tony holds cookery demonstrations in the house that are themed around seasonal produce or specific interests such as Aga cooking.Craigiewood North Kessock, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV1 3XG, 01463 731628 craigiewood.co.uk \u00a364-\u00a380, single \u00a332-\u00a380 Craigiewood, run by Araminta Dallmeyer, is situated within six acres of grounds and offers two bedrooms, each with an en suite. Araminta's husband Gavin works as a garden designer and organises tours of the gardens of northern Scotland.Doune Stone Lodges Doune, Knoydart, Inverness-shire PH41 4PL, 01687 462667 doune-knoydart.co.uk \u00a3140, single \u00a360-\u00a390 The four-bedroom B&B is located on the western tip of Knoydart and, as there is no road access, owners Martin and Jane Davies collect guests by boat from Mallaig. Special interest weeks such as wildlife tours and island hopping run from April to September.Dunhallin 164 Culduthel Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 4BH, 01463 220824 dunhallin.co.uk \u00a354, single \u00a335 Owners Sandy and Margaret Murray offer five bedrooms and a number of activity packages, including walking, climbing Ben Nevis and mountain biking: these weekends costs from \u00a3150 for two people and two nights and include equipment, guides, transport, accommodation, breakfast and packed lunches.Failte Guest House Main Street, Tobermory, Isle of Mull PA75 6NU, 01688 302495 failteguesthouse.com \u00a368-\u00a376, single \u00a334 Failte is an eight-bedroom property with views over Tobermory Bay, run by Mairi Barlow. Guests interested in diving and wildlife can take to the sea in the B&B's converted Norwegian rescue ship, the Elizabeth G. Breakfast can be a traditional full Scottish or a continental.Ferryman's Cottage Port Na Craig, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ND, 01796 473681 ferrymanscottage.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 Guests at Ferryman's can get permits for salmon and trout fishing on the river Tummel, in association with the Pitlochry angling club: the breakfast room where residents eat a full Scottish overlooks this water. The stone cottage, which was built 300 years ago, has two bedrooms with en suites and is a two-minute walk from the Pitlochry festival theatre.Galvelmore House 5 Galvelmore Street, Crieff, Perthshire PH7 4BY, 01764 655721 galvelmore.co.uk \u00a352-\u00a356, single \u00a337 Galvelmore House runs a series of one-off activity weekends, from photography courses and pottery workshops to mosaic sessions and mushroom foraging. Weekend breaks cost from \u00a3140, and this includes materials, training, accommodation and a cooked breakfast. There are three bedrooms and an oak-panelled guest lounge.Glenderran 9 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 477951 glenderran.com \u00a398, single \u00a345 Maggie and Ray Pead own Glenderran, a Victorian town house located in the centre of St Andrews. Golf packages are available here: these cost from \u00a3240 and include three nights' accommodation and three rounds of golf, one on the famous Old Course. The five bedrooms come with flat screen TVs.Glenshian Guesthouse Banavie, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 7LY, 01397 772174 glenshian-fortwilliam.co.uk \u00a358, single \u00a335 Glenshian is run by Glenys King and is located on the banks of the Caldedonian canal. Free canal fishing is available to all visitors and guests can also launch canoes from the bottom of the garden. The three bedrooms have en suites, and there is storage for guests' bikes and skis, as well as drying facilities.Kennels Cottage Dollarbeg, by Dollar, Clacks, Clackmannanshire FK14 7PA, 01259 742476 guesthousescotland.co.uk \u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a345 This former gamekeeper's cottage is 13 miles from Stirling and has four bedrooms with double beds and en suite bathooms. Classic cars such as an E-Type Jaguar, MKII Jaguar, Austin Healey, Morgan, Triumph TR6, MGB Roadster and a convertible Beetle are available to hire for the day or weekend and two-day packages that include transfers, accommodation and details of driving routes costs about \u00a3500.Kinkell House St Andrews, Fife KY16 8PN, 01334 472003 kinkell.com \u00a380, single \u00a350 Sandy and Frippy Fyfe have three bedrooms at their B&B and can provide equipment, instruction and routes for offroad obstacle driving in a 4x4 Land Rover, quad biking and laser clay pigeon shooting. Additionally, archery, falconry, treasure hunting, walking and coach tours, murder mysteries and mini-highland games can be organised for larger groups.Kirkton Barns Tayport, St Andrews, Fife DD6 9PD, 01382 554402 kirktonbarns.com \u00a375, single \u00a360 Kirkton Barns is a B&B on a working farm in 800 acres of farmland. Owner James Wemys offers a number of activity packages, including whiskey trails, sightseeing tours and three-day golfing trips. All three bedrooms overlook countryside and woodland. There is a guest lounge room with a piano and board games. Knowle B&B 136 Balmacaan Road, Drumnadrochit IV63 6UP, 01456 450646 lochnessguesthouse.co.uk \u00a352, single \u00a335 This B&B has views across Loch Ness and is surrounded by gardens and woodland. There are cookery packages available where guests help make their own evening meals using Scottish produce. There are also two mountain bikes for hire, bike sheds and drying rooms, and bi-aura therapy is available - this is intended to remove blockages from a your energy field. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms. Leanach Farm Culloden Farm, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 5EJ, 01463 791027 leanachfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a340 Iain and Rosanne Mackay run this working farm, which is located half a mile from the Culloden battlefield and Clava Cairns. Iain trains border collies and you can arrange to watch his dogs in action, or you can fish on the one and a half mile private stretch of the river Nairm that runs through the Mackays' land. There are four bedrooms here and a guest conservatory where breakfast is served. The Marks Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4XR, 01557 330854 marksfarm.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a335 This 16th-century farmhouse is located beside the Galloway Hills and is run by Chris Caygill and Sheila Watson. As well as breeding sheep and cattle, the farm offers stabling and grazing for guests' horses and the nearby woodland is suitable for riding and walking. The farmhouse has a drawing room and three bedrooms. Minmore House Glenlivet Banffshire, AB37 9DB, 01807 590378 minmorehousehotel.com \u00a3136, single \u00a383 Lynne and Victor Janssen own this Victorian country house set in landscaped gardens in the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. Guests are free to explore the estate, which has 100 miles of marked trails, access to the river Avon and the river Livet for fishing. Shooting breaks can also be arranged. The house's nine bedrooms all have views of the countryside and the Scottish breakfast includes kippers and smoked haddock. There is a restaurant on site serving evening meals and afternoon tea is served. \"Minmore House is a mellow, stone-built country house hotel, set amidst the beautiful forests and glens of the Glenlivet Crown Estate in Speyside. It offers fishing, walking and gourmet breaks.\" Nethan Guest House 17 Murray Park, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AW, 01334 472104 nethan-standrews.com \u00a380-\u00a390, single \u00a365 Bryan and Linzi Taylor offer seven bedrooms with en suites and flat screen TVs. Golf packages are available for local courses and the guest house has storage for golf clubs. A buffet of cereals, fruits, breads and preserves is provided for breakfast and can be followed by a full Scottish, vegetarian or kippers meal. The Old Rectory 12 St Johns Road, Annan, Gretna Green, Dumfries and Galloway DG12 6AW, 01461 202029 theoldrectoryscotland.com \u00a360, single \u00a335 The six-bedroom Old Rectory is located in the town of Annan close to Gretna Green. Owners Dave and Tara Buckel can help you to arrange local fishing or golfing trips: they will provide early breakfast for guests leaving early and have facilities for washing fishing gear and a storage area for equipment. Massage, reflexology and aromatherapy treatments are available for \u00a330 to \u00a335.Over Kinfauns Church Road, Kinfauns, Perth PH2 7LD, 01738 860538 overkinfauns.co.uk \u00a380, single \u00a350 Fiona Holmes' farmhouse B&B has four bedrooms and is three miles from Perth. Within the 60 acres of land there is a full livery where riding lessons for a range of abilities are available, and a number of hacking trails. There is parking available for trailers and horse boxes as well as grazing and stabling. An evening meal can be provided upon request. Park Guest House and Restaurant 30 James Street, Stornoway, Isle of Lewis HS1 2BT, 01851 702485 theparkguesthouse.co.uk \u00a374, single \u00a364 There are eight bedrooms at the stone-built town house, as well as a restaurant serving Scottish produce such as lamb, game and seafood. Food demonstrations take place on a Wednesday and Saturday - those attending watch the chef demonstrate how to cook a three-course lunch, and then eat the meal and are given the relevant recipes. Fees are \u00a319.50 per day. Ravenstar 24 Vatisker Back, Isle of Lewis HS2 0JS, 01851 820517 ravenstar-retreats.co.uk \u00a350, single \u00a333 Jane and Dave Eastwood have been using Shamanic teachings for over six years. They use a blend of Celtic and Native American spirituality in their retreat workshops, which include energy manipulation techniques and Cherokee crystal balancing. A three-day healing and meditation retreat costs about \u00a3180 per person. Two bedrooms are available. Sithe Mor House Kilchrenan, Loch Awe, Argyll & Bute PA35 1HF, 01866 833234 sithemor.com \u00a3100, single \u00a375 This 1880s country house is decorated with portraits, antiques and antlers and has its own bay and jetty. Owners Patsy and John Cugley have private fishing rights on the loch and offer three bedrooms with 20ft domed ceilings - a double with en suite, a double/twin with en suite and a double with private shower room. Struan Inn Calvine, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH18 5UB, 01796 483208 struan-inn.co.uk \u00a360, single \u00a345 The Struan Inn was built around 1860 as the Struan railway master's home: it is now a six-bedroom inn run by Heather Craig. Heather can arrange shooting sessions and equipment at one of the nearby hunting estates, as well as fishing on the local rivers: residents can bring their own equipment as she has a gun cabinet. Guests are given a full Scottish breakfast before a day's shooting. Viewbank Guest House Golf Course Road, Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran KA27 8QT, 01770 700326 viewbank-arran.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a376, single \u00a332 Malcolm and Julie Barker run Viewbank, a 19th-century converted farmhouse located above Whiting Bay. There are several two-person, two-night activity packages available: the golf break includes a lesson and a round of golf, or two rounds of golf, for \u00a3200, and the food weekend includes vouchers for restaurants in the area, wine and beer tasting and visits to local cheese and chocolate shops. Four of the six bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and some have sea views. Woodbine Guest House Uig, Isle of Skye IV51 9XP, 01470 542 243, 07904 267561 skyeactivities.co.uk \u00a359, single \u00a329.50 Vicki and Andi Dunkel run Woodbine, a four-bedroom B&B in the village of Uig. Activities packages are available throughout the year and include boat trips, walking and trekking, archery, sea kayaking, biking, diving trips, fishing and waterskiing - half a day of archery costs \u00a315 per person while a full-day fishing trip costs \u00a355. A full Scottish breakfast is provided and packed lunches and dinner are available.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Activities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blackaddie Country HouseSanquhar, Dumfrieshire, DG4 6JJ, 01659 50270\u00a380, single \u00a345-\u00a355Ian and Jane McAndrew run Blackaddie; the river Nith can be seen from their conservatory and some of their nine bedrooms with en suite bathrooms overlook their garden or the river. The full Scottish breakfast includes kippers and porridge and Ian is a Michelin-starred chef who plans to hold cookery courses at the B&B from September. These will take the form of residential weekend packages, including a visit to a local whiskey distillery.The Creel Restaurant with RoomsFront Rd, St Margaret's Hope, Orkney KW17 2SL, 01856 831311 thecreel.co.uk\u00a3105, single \u00a375The Creel's menu is dominated by fresh fish, with less known breeds such as megrim, torsk and seawitch included; Orkney ales and Scottish malt whiskeys are also available. Owners Alan and Joyce Craigie offer three bedrooms with sea views and en suites and a breakfast of grilled local kippers or smoked salmon and scrambled egg, among other items, is included.Creagan HouseStrathyre, Callander, Perthshire FK18 8ND, 01877 384638creaganhouse.co.uk\u00a3120-\u00a3130, single \u00a370-\u00a385Gordon and Cherry Gunn's Creagan House has a restaurant and a bar with around 100 wines and 50 single-malt whiskies. The farmhouse has been recently restored and now offers five bedrooms, all with en suites and Molton Brown toiletries. One room also has a four-poster bed, hand carved with Scottish emblems by the previous owner of Cregan House.The Cros at KingusieKingussie, Tweed Mill Brae, Ardbroilach Road PH21 1LB, 01540 661166thecross.co.uk\u00a3100-\u00a3210, single \u00a3100-\u00a3155The Cross, a converted water-powered tweed mill, serves modern British cuisine with a Scottish twist. Breakfasts include kedgeree, local estate venison sausages and local black pudding with Scottish pancetta and organic Highland eggs. All eight bedrooms have an en suite and king- or queen-size beds and one of the rooms has a balcony. The Cross was the winner of the Scottish restaurant with rooms of the year at the Scottish Hotels of the year award 2004.Cuildorag HouseOnich, Highland, PH33 6SD, 01855 821529cuildoraghouse.com\u00a350-\u00a355, single \u00a335-\u00a345There are three bedrooms available at Lisa Glaze's vegetarian and vegan B&B. Breakfast includes vegetarian sausages, potato scones and eggs from the house's hens, served with Fairtrade tea and coffee. Guests can also arrange to have an evening meal here for about \u00a316 - a typical three-course meal can include homemade soup, vegetable crumble with produce from the garden and fresh fruit pavlova. A 5% discount is given to members of the Vegetarian Society, the Vegan Society or Vegetarians International Voice for Animals who stay for two or more nights.Edenwater HouseEdnam, nr Kelso, Scottish Borders TD5 7QL, 01573 224070edenwaterhouse.co.uk\u00a370-\u00a395, single \u00a355-\u00a365Edenwater is owned by Jacqui and Jeff Kelly and their restaurant serves modern British dishes: any ingredients not locally sourced are marked as such on the menu. Four bedrooms are on offer, two with en suite bathrooms and two with private bathrooms. Sometimes another single room is available.The Green Inn9 Victoria Road, Ballater, Arbedeenshire AB35 5QQ, 01339755701 green-inn.com\u00a370-\u00a390, single \u00a350-\u00a360The Green Inn's dinner menu features pan-fried red snapper, terrine of fillets of roe deer, teal, lamb, sea bass, partridge, beef and pheasant, among other items. The head chef, owner Trevor O'Halloran's son Chris, was trained at Raymond Blanc's Le Manor aux Quat' Saisons hotel in Oxford. Three bedrooms are available and continental breakfast is included, although a cooked breakfast can be provided for an extra price.Highland CottageBreadalbane, St Tobermary, Argyll, Isle of Mull PA75 6PD, 01688 302030highlandcottage.co.uk\u00a3150-\u00a3185, single \u00a3120-\u00a3185The cottage is run by former hoteliers David and Jo Currie and there are six bedrooms, two with four-poster beds and one at street level for ease of access. Jo won the M\u00e9daille d'Or for outstanding dinner at the Scottish Hotels of the Year awards 2007 and she serves produce such as scallops from Tobermory Bay and crabs from the west coast of Mull for dinner, as well as a full Scottish breakfast. The Horseshoe Inn Eddleston, nr Peebles, EH45 8QP, 01721 730225horseshoeinn.co.uk\u00a3100, single \u00a370The Horseshoe Inn won AA restaurant of the year 2007-08 for Scotland and Northen Ireland and the evening menu includes dishes like lobster ravioli with duck and foie gras croquette. A traditional cooked breakfast is served to guests after they've spent the night in one of the eight bedrooms, located in a seperate building which used to be the village school, at the back of the inn.Knockinaam LodgePortpatrick, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 9AD, 01776 810471knockinaamlodge.com\u00a3170-\u00a3300, single \u00a3115-\u00a3250Knockinaam is a Victorian manor house set in 40 acres of land: previous guests include Winston Churchill, who also has one of the nine bedrooms named after him. The restaurant serves modern British cuisine, prepared by Michelin-starred chef Tony Pierce, and there is a wine cellar with over 450 bottles as well as a selection of 150 single-malt whiskeys.Lochmill House3 Lade Court, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7QF, 01506 846682\u00a370, single \u00a340All the food here is prepared by owner Susan Denholm, who decorates her property with flowers picked from her gardens: for breakfast, guests can expect a cooked meal, with cereals and homemade compotes and the host will also prepare packed lunches and evening meals for an extra price. There are two bedrooms available: one with an en suite and one with a private bathroom.Old PinesSpean Bridge, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH34 4EG, 01397712324\u00a3105, single \u00a362.50Run by Imogen and Ken Dalley, the Old Pines menu includes dishes such as roast loin of Great Glen venison, colcannon, roasted root vegetable and blackcurrant game jus. Dessert offerings include butterscotch pots and vanilla shortbread pudding. There are eight bedrooms available.The Peat InnBy Cupar, Fife KY15 5LH, 01334 840206 thepeatinn.co.uk\u00a3175, single \u00a3135Winner of the best rural restaurant in the Scottish Restaurant Awards 2008, the Peat Inn's owner Geoffrey Smeddle took over the kitchen in June 2006, and his wife Katherine looks after the restaurant. His modern British menu is built around locally sourced ingredients such as beetroot-cured salmon with dill and cucumber dressing and braised daube of beef, onion puree, confit potatoes and bacon among other items. Guest accommodation comprises eight bedrooms and a continental breakfast is served in your room.2 QuailCastle Street, Dornoch, Sutherland IV25 3SN, 01862 811811 2quail.com\u00a3100-\u00a3120, single \u00a380-\u00a3100Owned by Michael and Kerensa Carr, 2 Quail is housed in a renovated Victorian town house and has three bedrooms with feather duvets, en suite bathrooms and wireless internet access. A cooked breakfast is included. The restaurant seats 12 and offers a set four-course dinner menu, created by Michael, who was trained at the Ritz Hotel in London. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from the Royal Dornoch golf course and both owners are golf enthusiasts.Three Chimneys and the House Over-ByColbost, Dunvegan, Isle of Skye, Highlands IV55 8ZT, 01470 511258threechimneys.co.uk\u00a3265, single \u00a3265Three Chimneys, located in a 100-year-old crofter's cottage, is a restaurant serving traditional Scottish food and the House Over-By is the six-bedroom B&B next door. Breakfast is served in the Morning Room, which has views of the Outer Hebrides: it is a buffet with oatcakes, sliced peat-smoked salmon, natural yoghurt from the West Highland dairy with Scottish honey and toasted seeds, among other items.Ullinish Country LodgeBy Dunvegan, Isle of Skye IV56 8FD, 01470 572214the-isle-of-skye.co.uk\u00a3200, single \u00a390-\u00a3120Run by Brian Howard, Ullinish Country Lodge is situated on Skye's west coast. The restaurant's menu draws on its location, listing items such as hand-dived sea scallops and loch Bracadale crab vinaigrette with locally grown herbs, leaves and flowers and light crab mousse. There are six bedrooms available, all with en suite and the double occupancy price includes dinner.The Wheatsheaf Restaurant with RoomsMain Street, Swinton, Berwickshire TD11 3JJ, 01890 860257wheatsheaf-swinton.co.uk\u00a3108-\u00a3144, single \u00a381-\u00a399The Wheatsheaf restaurant, run by head chef John Keir, serves traditional Scottish food and won best formal meal for 2006-07 in the Scottish Borders Eating Out awards. Fresh fish comes from Eyemouth harbour 12 miles away and the beef served is prime Scottish meat. Attached to the restaurant are 10 bedrooms with en suites and guests staying here are served a cooked breakfast.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Food: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Blairbeich PlantationGartocharn, Loch Lomond, Dunbartonshire G83 8RR, 01389 830257blairbeich.com\u00a370-\u00a3100, single \u00a360-\u00a390Malla Macdonald runs this two-bedroom B&B, which is surrounded by trees and located next to a private lake in the Trossachs national park: Loch Lomond is a mile and-a-half away. Both bedrooms have an en suite and guests are served a full Scottish or continental breakfast. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a335: Malla incorporates dishes from her native Sweden.Brook Linn Country HouseLeny Feus, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8AU, 01877 330103brooklinn-scotland.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a380, single \u00a335-\u00a340This 150-year-old Victorian house is situated on the edge of Callander town, in the Trossachs national park, and is surrounded by two acres of grounds. It has four bedrooms, all with en suites. Stirling castle is 20 minutes in the car. Owners Derek and Fiona House serve a full Scottish breakfast each morning.Chlenry FarmhouseCastle Kennedy, Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway DG9 8SL, 01776 705316chlenryfarmhouse.com\u00a365, single \u00a340Chlenry Farmhouse is situated on the Southern Upland Way walk. There are three bedrooms: the twin and double share a bathroom, while the second twin room has private facilities. A cooked breakfast is included, and hosts David and Ginny Wolseley Brinton can provide a four-course dinner for \u00a327.50 or a light supper for \u00a315.Craigard Guest HouseInvergarry, Inverness-shire PH35 4HG, 01809 501258 craigard.saltire.org\u00a355, single \u00a327.50Andrew and Joy Middleton have seven bedrooms at their Victorian property, five that have en suites. There are a number of marked woodland paths around the local area and the Great Glen Way is a few miles away. Walkers can also arrange to be picked up from there nearby Loch Oich, another popular walking destination. Other popular walking destinations include the many Munros in the area. An evening meal can be provided for \u00a311 by prior arrangement.Craig VillaLoch Lomond, Dalmally, COUNTY PA33 1AX, 01838 200255 craigvilla.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a360, single \u00a325-\u00a330Craig Villa is a family-run guest house that stands in an acre and-a-half of grounds; it is 11 miles from the Loch Lomond national park and is surrounded by an area well-suited to hill walking. The property has nine bedrooms and a dining room that overlooks mountains; there is a restaurant 400 metres away that serves evening meals.Distillery HouseNevis Bridge, Fort William, Highland PH33 6LR, 01397 700103stayinfortwilliam.co.uk\u00a360-\u00a3104, single \u00a348Philip and Linda Stuart's B&B is set in the grounds of the old Glenlochy distillery against the backdrop of Ben Nevis. It is a five-minute walk from the West Highland Way and has 10 bedrooms, each with an en suite. Complimentary whisky and shortbread is served in the reading lounge, where books are available on local history and whisky trails.FincraigsKilmany, Cupar, Fife KY15 4QQ, 01382 330256\u00a380, single \u00a340Fincraig is an 18th-century farmhouse with the North East Fife cycling Route going past the house. It is also two miles from the Firth of Tay's coastal walks. The double bedroom has an en suite while the twin room has a separate bathroom. There is a drawing room with a log fire and a TV and a guest sitting room.Frennich HouseBrig O'Turk, Kilmahog, Callander, Perthshire FK17 8HT, 01877 376274frennich-house.co.uk\u00a350-\u00a356, single \u00a335-\u00a340There are two bedrooms available in Frennich House, run by Anne and Hugh Dobbins. A cooked breakfast, including homemade scones, is provided. The house is set within the boundary of Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, which boasts many walks and trails.Lochside CottageFasnacloich, Appin, Argyll and Bute PA38 4BJ, 01631 730216lochsidecottage.net\u00a364-\u00a376, single \u00a332-\u00a338This cottage has a private loch at the end of the garden and has views across the hills of Loch Etive and the Glencoe mountains. The district of Appin is mountainous, offering walks, climbs and pony trekking. The owners, Stella and Earle Broadbent, can help guests plan routes. There are three bedrooms.Newtonmill HouseBy Brechin, Angus DD9 7PZ, 01356 622533newtonmillhouse.co.uk\u00a396, single \u00a358This 18th-century property is 20- minute drive from Glamis Castle. The house has two bedrooms, and hosts Stephen and Rose Rickman serve a full Scottish breakfast; fruitfrom the walled garden is also available. The house is two miles from the Blue Door walk.No.3 Candacraig SquareStrathdon, Aberdeenshire AB36 8XT, 01975 651 472candacraig.com\u00a380, single \u00a347.50There are three bedrooms at this former laundry that served Candacraig House, which is located in the Cairngorms national park. Two have en suite bathrooms and one has separate bath and shower. For breakfast, there is a choice of porridge, eggs and fruit, as well as traditional Scottish items, such as smoked fresh herring, Finnan Haddie and Arbroath smokies.Tir Alainn8 Upper Breakish, Isle of Skye IV42 8PY, 01471 822366visitskye.com\u00a370, single \u00a335Pam and Ron Davison run this three-bedroom B&B, which has sea views and a guest lounge stocked with books and whiskies. Ron is a professional mountain guide and runs walks of the nearby coast and hills that vary in length and difficulty and can include historic and natural points of interest.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Walking: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The minke whale can be an inquisitive beast. At its boldest, it will swim over to inspect the small boat idling nearby, displaying its bright white underbelly as it twists over and swims under the hull, the better to see its admirers. For the amateur whale watcher visiting Mull, it is the defining moment of their marine safari.Minke - one of the world's smaller whales - are regular visitors to the shallow inshore waters around the Hebridean island, feeding along the tide lines of the seas warmed by the Gulf Stream coming in from the Atlantic. The animal surfaces with a sudden jet of water, its sleek back and petite curved dorsal fin rising above the water.Basking sharks are also regular visitors, drawn by the plumes of plankton that are pushed up close to the surface by tides and currents. Harbour porpoises and dolphins are a permanent presence around Mull and its junior sisters Coll, Tiree, Treshish and Staffa. These highly sociable creatures often hug the coast in the quiet, sheltered waters of the Sound of Mull in groups. Standing on the observation deck of the Sula Beag, the main whale-watching vessel run by Mull's largest marine tours company, Sea Life Surveys, whale watchers are turned into hunters - scouring the seas for the first glimpse of whale or dolphin. On one such safari in early May - at the beginning of the island's whale-watching season, when the seas are choppy and whipped by cool winds into foam-tipped waves - we picked out several porpoise as their snouts and domed foreheads briefly broke the surface.And once or twice each summer, the hefty black and white form of an orca, or killer whale, will be seen breaking the waves. Sperm whales have been spotted and once in the last few years, just once, local whale watchers have seen a huge fin whale - the size of several double-decker buses - surfacing in deeper waters to the west. But minke are the chief attraction for the day-long expeditions organised by Sea Life Surveys, a family firm that pioneered whale watching in Britain, run from quayside offices in the Hebridean island's main town, Tobermory. Minke are now being sighted up to half a dozen times a day, as the summer season brings warmer waters and calmer seas. \"We'll see what they're doing and where they're feeding, and then get into an area where they may well approach us,\" says James Fairbairn, who recently took over running the firm from his father. \"Sometimes they roll on their backs to see us and show their underbelly - it's completely white and you see this massive white thing going under the boat watching us. It's incredible.\" James's father, \"Pops\" Fairbairn, originally a farmer, diversified from agriculture into sea-angling trips and creel fishing - a change that put him in contact with local minke. To his astonishment, the whales would approach his boat, watching him work. He began organising amateur whale-watching expeditions - the first in the UK - using a 7-metre boat with just 12 passengers. They now have two 15-metre vessels: the Sula Beag, which can take 40 passengers and the Sula Mhor, which takes 60.Its success has helped make Mull one of the most successful ecotourism destinations in Britain. It has spawned local rivals who also boast of whale encounters on their sightseeing cruises to Fingal's Cave on Staffa and outlying islands, and helped create a thriving wildlife watching industry on the island - particularly for bird-watchers.Drawn often by Mull's rich population of birds of prey, bird-watchers also now crowd the decks of the whale-watching boats. Seabirds play a key role in these expeditions, which cover a wide area of sea to the north and west of Mull, venturing up to 30km northwards to the island of Eigg.The Manx shearwaters, razorbills, kittiwake and puffins that dart energetically just above the water's surface are an excellent guide to whalefeeding areas: they crowd over the plankton and tiny fish that rise to the surface at the tide lines and \"upswellings\" where tides and currents meet. This is the same food for the minke.Seen from the boats, whose decks rise just a few metres above the surface, the seas between northern Mull, Ardnamurchan Point and Coll to the west are remarkably busy. Shearwaters, their downturned wingtips almost skimming the waves, will fly past in \"V\" formation; razorbills will flash past in a hurry. Puffins - oblivious to the boat - bob on the waves, while black wing-tipped kittiwakes fly overhead.It is a far more intimate and involving experience at sea level - an experience heightened by the Fairbairns' system of using passengers as amateur field workers. There are no whales today - it is quite early in the season. Fairbairn is now waiting to see what this summer delivers. \"You just never know. That's what makes it so exciting.\"sealifesurveys.com", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Wildlife holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Environment", "Travel", "Animals", "Whale watching holidays", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Mull is Britain's whale watching capital"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:06:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Braemore Square Country House Loch Broom, Wester Ross, Ross-shire IV23 2RX, 01854 655357 braemoresquare.com \u00a360, single \u00a350 The three-bedroom B&B was built in 1840 as a stage post and was previously part of engineer Sir John Fowler's estate; among other things, he was responsible for the suspension bridge over Corrieshalloch Gorge, a mile from the B&B.Cambo House Kingsbarns, St. Andrews, Fife KY16 8QD, 01333 450054 camboestate.com \u00a394-\u00a3130, single \u00a347-\u00a365 Cambo House is set in the Cambo estate, the home of the Erskine family since 1688. The estate is 1,200 acres and the Victorian mansion was built in 1881. There are two bedrooms and the guest sitting rooms overlooks the fountain and gardens. The beach is a short walk from the estate through woodlands and Golf Links is 200 metres away.Castle Stuart Petty Parish, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 7JH, 01463 790745 \u00a3390, no single occupancy This castle has been in the Stuart family since 1625 and is currently owned by Charles and Elizabeth. There are eight bedrooms, all named after the Scottish clans who fought for Bonnie Prince Charlie in the battle of Culloden, and decorated with their respective tartan. There are secret passages and doors around the castle and the three-turret room at the top of the east tower is said to be haunted. A four-course dinner banquet is included in the price.Castleton House Hotel By Glamis, Angus DD8, 1SJ, 01307 840340 castletonglamis.co.uk \u00a3200-\u00a3240, single \u00a3130-\u00a3150 The house and lawn stand on a medieval motte; the house is 100-years-old, and home to owners Verity and David Webster, as well as their chickens, ducks and Tamworth pigs. There is a garden and orchard, and the fruit and vegetables from here get used in the kitchen. There are six bedrooms available.Craighall Castle Blairgowrie, Perth and Kinross, PH10 7JB, 01250 874749 craighall.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a340 Craighall Castle was built in 1533 for the Rattray family. It is situated on the top of a cliff and overlooks the river Ericht. Current descendants Nicky and Lachie offer two bedrooms and the breakfast they serve a full Scottish.Dinnet House Aboyne, Aberdeenshire, AB34 5LN, 01339 885332 \u00a390-\u00a3100, single \u00a345-\u00a350 The former Victorian shooting lodge stands in 50 acres of private grounds: guests can stay in one of three bedroom, two that overlook the river Dee and one that overlooks the Morven mountain. Hosts Sabrina and Marcus Humphrey can provide dinner for \u00a325, which includes ingredients such as meat and game from the estate farm.Ellangowan St John Street, Creetown, Dumfries and Galloway, DG8 7JF, 01671 820201 ellangowan.co.uk \u00a356-\u00a364, single \u00a334-\u00a336 Ellangowan was featured in the 1973 film The Wicker Man - it was transformed into the Green Man pub and fans of the film often come and have their photo taken at the bar. As well as eight bedrooms, owner Bill Christie has a restaurant where guests can dine in the evening.Ethie Castle Inverkeilor, By Arbroath, Angus, DD11 5SP, 01241 830434 ethiecastle.com \u00a395-\u00a3110, single \u00a375-\u00a390 Ethie Castle was built in the 1300s for the abbot and monks of Arbroath Abbey and is now owned by Kirstin de Morgan. There are thought to be several secret passages in the castle, including one going from the public lounge room, the Cardinal's Room, to the chapel.Glentower Lower Observatory Fortwilliam, Inverness-shire, PH33 6RQ, 01397 704007 glentower.com \u00a376-\u00a390, single \u00a376-\u00a390 Glentower Lower Observatory was built in the late 1800s to complement the observatory on the summit of Ben Nevis. Meteological observations were made from July 1890 until 1904, when funding became an issue. It is now a seven-bedroom B&B run by Trevor and Catriona Rosie. Fort William town centre can be reached in five minutes on foot and Cowhill path and Ben Nevis are about a five-minute drive away.The Grange Grange Road, Fort William, Inverness-shire PH33 6JF, 01397 705516 thegrange-scotland.co.uk \u00a398-\u00a3110, single \u00a388.20-\u00a399 The Grange is a black and white Victorian house with a small turret and decorative windows, owned by John and Joan Campbell. It is located above Loch Linhe and each of the four bedrooms has views over the loch; the turret room is decorated with French oak furniture and the Robroy room has an original Louis XV king-size bed.Inveresk House 3 Inveresk Village, Musselburgh, East Lothian EH21 7UA, 0131-665 5855 invereskhouse.com \u00a3100, single \u00a365 Inveresk House was built on the site of a Roman settlement and has a passage running underneath it: it is also thought that Oliver Cromwell used the building as his headquarters for two months in the 1650s. Owners Alice and Johnny Chute can take guests on a history tour of the building, which has three bedrooms, a twin, a double and a family room. Guests can have cereals, Scottish porridge, eggs, bacon and toast for breakfast.Old Church of Urquhart Parrandier, Meft Road, Urquhart by Elgin IV30 8NH, 01343 843063 oldchurch.eu \u00a358, single \u00a339 This 19th-century former church has a 70ft-high tower and functioning bell: given advance warning, the owners can toll the bell to mark romantic occasions. There are three bedrooms and two guest lounges and meals are served in the gallery, under the traditional church ceiling: an evening meal can be provided by arrangement.The Old Station Stravithie Bridge, St Andrews, Fife KY16 8LR, 01334 880505 theoldstation.co.uk \u00a390-\u00a3130, single \u00a370 Six of the eight bedrooms at this B&B are located in the main house, a refurbished Victorian railway station: one is a Scottish themed room, another has Oriental-style furniture and art. The other two bedrooms are suites in a converted train carriage in the two-acre garden.Skirling House Skirling, by Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6HD, 01899 860274 skirlinghouse.com \u00a3100-\u00a3125, single \u00a360-\u00a380 Skirling House was designed by Scottish architect Ramsay Traquair for Lord Carmichael, the first governor of Bengal. It took five years to build and is home some of the Lord's artworks, including a 16th-century Florentine carved ceiling in the drawing room. Five bedrooms are available and the breakfast menu includes a cooked meal, kippers and a daily special.Tullibole Castle By Crook of Devon, Kinross, Kinross-shire KY13 0QN, 01577 840236 \u00a390, single \u00a355 The Moncreiff family have owned this Grade A-listed castle since 1747 and current owners Rhoderick and Alison offer guests one twin bedroom, with its own bathroom and the use of the Great Hall as a private sitting room. The property stands in a 260-acre estate where there is the ruins of a medieval church.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Unusual places: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:05:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Berry Allt-Na-Subh, Dornie, Kyle of Lochalsh, Ross-shire IV40 8DZ, 01599 588259 \u00a350, single \u00a330 Set in a hamlet of five houses, Joan Ashburner offers two bedrooms, one with a private bathroom and one with a shared bathroom. The house overlooks loch Long and there are several munros nearby. A full Scottish or continental breakfast is provided; dinner, with options including venison and lobster, is offered.  Corranmor House Ardfern, Lochgilphead, Argyll & Bute PA31 8QN, 01852 500609 \u00a376, single \u00a340 This stone house is situated on a 400-acre working farm overlooking Craignish loch. It has one double bedroom with an en suite bathroom and its own sitting room, and one family suite that includes a double room, two single rooms, sitting room and bathroom. Hosts Hew and Barbara Service greet guests with tea and homemade cakes.  Dun Na Mara Benderloch, Oban, Argyll & Bute PA37 1RT, 01631 720233 dunnamara.com \u00a395-\u00a3105, single \u00a355-\u00a365 Dun Na Mara, in the small village of Benderloch, is owned by Mark McPhillips and Suzanne Pole. The Edwardian house overlooks the Isle of Mull and has a garden leading down to a secluded beach. It has five double bedrooms, one twin and one single, all with en suite bathrooms. Breakfast options include a full Scottish breakfast, smoked haddock, and scrambled eggs with spinach.  The Glebe House Law Road, North Berwick, East Lothian EH39 4PL, 01620 892608 glebehouse-nb.co.uk \u00a390, single \u00a365 The three-bedroom Glebe House is a Georgian manse a two-minute walk from North Berwick beach. Both double bedrooms have en suite bathrooms, and one has a four-poster bed. Breakfast is served by host Gwen Scott and includes fruit, cereal, croissants or a cooked dish. The Bass rock, a sea bird nesting site, can be visited by boat from the nearby harbour.  Glenmore Kilmelford, Oban, Argyll & Bute PA34 4XA, 01852 200314 glenmorecountryhouse.co.uk \u00a370-\u00a380, \u00a340-\u00a350 single Glenmore is located at the bottom of a private avenue, five minutes' walk from the west coast. The 19th-century country house was extended in the 1930s and is currently owned by Alasdair and Melissa Oatts. There are two bedrooms; the family room has an en suite bathroom while the double has a separate bathroom. A full cooked or continental breakfast is provided.  Inverugie House Hopeman, Moray IV30 5YB, 01343 830253 inverugiehouse.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a335 This Georgian house is surrounded by woodland and a one and a half acre walled garden. The village, harbour and beaches are a 20-minute walk away. Two bedrooms share a bathroom; the third has an en suite. The B&B is owned by Roddy and Lucy MacKenzie: Roddy is in the whisky business and can advise on distillery trips.  Melfort House Kilmelford, By Oban, Argyll & Bute, PA34 4XD, 01852 200326 melforthouse.co.uk \u00a385-\u00a3110, single \u00a360 Melfort is a Georgian-style house a five-minute walk from Fearnach Bay. For guests arriving at about 4pm, hosts Matthew and Yvonne Anderson serve tea in their drawing room. All three bedrooms have en suite bathrooms and king-size beds. Breakfast choices include kedgeree, Stornoway black pudding, homemade tattie scones, chilli omelettes and seasonal fruit.  18 Queens Terrace 18 Queens Terrace, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QF, 01334 478849 18queensterrace.com \u00a390, single \u00a370 18 Queens Terrace is located in the old town in St Andrews, less than a minute's walk from the town centre. It is a 10-minute walk from both the East Sands and West Sands beaches and the Royal & Ancient golf club. There are four bedrooms and host Jill Hardie serves a continental or cooked breakfast.  Seaview Fionnphort, Isle of Mull PA66 6BL, 01681 700235 iona-bed-breakfast-mull.com \u00a362, single \u00a340 John and Jane Noddings run Seaview, a B&B with views of the nearby beach and the Sound of Iona. Four of the five bedrooms have an en suite bathroom and all have a TV. Birdwatching and boat trips are available nearby.  Straven Guesthouse 3 Brunstane Road, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH15 2DL, 0131-669 5580 stravenguesthouse.com \u00a364, single \u00a342 Mac and Marian McCool run this six-bedroom B&B, less than a minute's walk to Portobello beach and promenade. Free parking is available outside. Breakfast starts with porridge and cream; guests can then choose from options like a full Scottish, continental breakfast or Scottish salmon.  Tanglewood House Ullapool, Ross-shire IV26 2TB, 01854 612059 tanglewoodhouse.co.uk \u00a382-\u00a396, single \u00a366-\u00a373 Set in a three-acre wild garden, Tanglewood overlooks loch Broome and the rocky shore is less than a minute away on foot. It has one double bedroom with a balcony and two twin bedrooms - all have en suite bathrooms and sea views. Host Anne Holloway serves a breakfast of local smoked fish, locally produced sausages and porridge with cream. She can also provide an evening meal or picnic.  Tigh An Dochais 13 Harrapool, Isle of Skye IV49 9AQ, 01471 820022 skyebedbreakfast.co.uk \u00a370, single \u00a355 Tigh An Dochais is a modern building located on a narrow strip of land between the road and the sea with views of Broadford Bay. There are three bedrooms with en suite bathrooms and sea views. Breakfast is served in an upstairs lounge and comprises a traditional cooked breakfast with locally produced sausages, local haddock or kippers and black pudding from Stornaway. Dinner can be provided by arrangement.  Water's Edge Canonbury Terrace, Fortrose, Ross-shire IV10 8TT, 01381 621202 watersedge.uk.com \u00a390, single \u00a375 At the end of Gillian and Bill Lee's garden there is a small beach, and all three guest bedrooms have balconies and views across the sea. Local dolphin-watching trips sail past the house. The breakfast room also overlooks the beach and is the setting for cooked, fish and continental breakfasts. Inverness is a 15-minute drive away.  Wemyss House Bayfield, Tain, Ross-shire IV19 1QW, 01862 851212 wemysshouse.com \u00a380, single \u00a380 Wemyss House overlooks the Moray Firth river and is a mile from the Sands of Nigg. The three bedrooms all have en suite bathrooms and are decorated with furniture made by co-owner Stuart Clifford. Co-owner Christine Asher makes a Highland breakfast for guests which includes home-baked bread and preserves, organic porridge and eggs laid by the guest house's own hens. Supper is available from \u00a315.", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: The coast: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-05-16T23:04:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Ardconnel House  21 Ardconnel Street, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV2 3EU, 01463 240455, ardconnel-inverness.co.uk \u00a365, single \u00a335  The city centre, the main shopping centre and Inverness castle are all within walking distance of this six-bedroom B&B. There are two double rooms, two single rooms, one family room and one twin room. Breakfast can be a self-service buffet or a full Scottish.  Ardmor House  74 Pilrig Street, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH6 5AS, 0131-554 4944,  ardmorhouse.com  \u00a390, single \u00a360  Ardmor House is located opposite Pilrig park and is a 15-minute walk from Princes Street, the main shopping area in Edinburgh. The five bedrooms all have en suites and a flat-screen TV. Breakfast includes a buffet of items like cheese, fruit, oatcakes, smoked salmon and potato waffles.  Aslar Guest House  120 North Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9AF, 01334 473460,  aslar.com  \u00a390, single \u00a345-\u00a380  Owners Stan and Mary Hastie serve breakfast in a room overlooking the buildings of St Andrews University: this has been recently refurbished. They also offer six bedrooms with en suites, wireless internet and flat-screen TVs. The town centre is a five-minute walk away.  Avalon Guest House  Glenurquhart Road, Inverness IV3 5PB, 01463 239075,  inverness-loch-ness.co.uk  \u00a360, single \u00a350  Avalon is a six-bedrooms B&B located a 10-minute walk from the city centre and a five-minute drive from Loch Ness. Each room has just been decorated and now contains a flat-screen TV, complimentary wireless internet and Freeview. There is a large guest car park.  Barrisdale Guest House  115 Randolph Road, Glasgow, Lanarkshire G11 7DS, 0141-339 7589,  barrisdale-bnb.co.uk  \u00a350, single \u00a330  Set in a restored Victorian town house, Barrisdale's three bedrooms have TVs, maid service and complimentary tea and coffee. A continental breakfast of pastries, juice and fruit is available. The bed and breakfast is near the Kelvingrove galleries and the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre, and is a 12-minute train ride away from the city centre.  Butler's Guest House  122 Crown Street, Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire AB11 6HJ, 01224 212411,  butlersguesthouse.com  \u00a360, single \u00a355  This B&B offers five bedrooms with en suites and two standard bedrooms. Laundry, drying and ironing services are available, as is wireless internet. The standard breakfast includes fruit, yoghurt, toast and cereal but for an extra \u00a35, a hot breakfast comprising bacon, eggs and sausage can be provided.  Craigmore  20 Craigs Road, Corstophine, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH12 8EL, 0131-339 4225,  fourstaredinburgh.com  \u00a360, single \u00a345  Craigmore is a two-bedroom B&B run by Rae and Peter Mackenzie. It is located in west Edinburgh and the city centre is a 15-minute bus ride away and the airport is a seven-minute journey. A full Irish breakfast is cooked to order and the B&B can offer a snack of homemade soup and rolls in the evenings.  Dunmurray Lodge  72 Bonnethill Road, Pitlochry, Perthshire PH16 5ED, 01796 473624,  dunmurray.co.uk  \u00a360, single \u00a345  Dunmurray Lodge was originally built for the town doctor, but now serves as a four-bedroom B&B run by Irene and Tony Willmore. Each of the rooms has an en suite bathroom and two of the rooms overlook Pitlochry town. The B&B is a 10-minute walk from several distilleries.  The Flower House  33 St Vincent Crescent, Glasgow, Lanarkshire G3 8NG, 0141-204 2846  \u00a360, single \u00a340  The Flower House is set in a 19th-century listed building on the edge of the city centre. It is located near the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre, the Kelvingrove Art Galleries and Museum and Glasgow University. The house is decorated with antiques and the two bedrooms have TVs.  Mardon  37 Kenneth Street, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV3 5DH, 01463 231005,  mardonguesthouse.co.uk  \u00a364, single \u00a332  Mardon is located in Inverness city centre and is run by Chris and Val Skelton. As a qualified nutritional therapist, Val offers therapy sessions including reflexology, Indian head massage and immuno-lymphatic therapy. The six bedrooms have en suites and one is a family room that can sleep four.  Melness Guest House  8 Old Edinburgh Road, Inverness-shire IV23 HF, 01463 220963,  melnessie.co.uk  \u00a370, single \u00a370  Melness Guest House's two bedrooms have a private bathroom, a TV and wireless internet access. Breakfast includes porridge or cereal followed by a full English and owners Joy and Raymond Joyce will make a packed breakfast for guests planning to leave early. The B&B is within five minutes walk of Inverness Castle.  Southside Guest House  8 Newington Road, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH9 1QS, 0131-668 4422,  southsideguesthouse.co.uk  \u00a390, single \u00a365  Southside is a 25-minute walk from Edinburgh castle. The B&B is a Victorian house and has eight bedrooms, a large DVD collection and wireless internet connection. Breakfast comprises smoked salmon, fruit and pastries.  Trafford Bank  96 Fairfield Road, Inverness, Inverness-shire IV3 5LL, 01463 241414,  traffordbankguesthouse.co.uk  \u00a380-\u00a3110, single \u00a360-\u00a380  The B&B is five miles from Loch Ness and has five bedrooms: a flat-screen TV, DVD player, iPod dock and refrigerator can be found in each room and guests can eat fruit, porridge, eggs, haggis, black pudding, cheese or cold meats for breakfast in a conservatory overlooking the garden. Last year the B&B was named guest accommodation of 2007-08 in Scotland and Northern Ireland by the AA.  \"Luxurious accommodation and Highland hospitality go hand in hand at Trafford Bank. Lorraine's flair for interior design has produced a mixture of antique and contemporary furniture and lighting throughout the house.\"  Windmill House  Coltbridge Gardens, Edinburgh EH12 6AQ, 0131-346 0024  \u00a3120, single \u00a375-\u00a380  This is a three-bedroom Georgian house run by Michael and Vivien Scott. Each bedroom has an en suite and it is surrounded by two acres of garden which includes a stone windmill that is home to a family of badgers. The B&B is about a mile from the city centre. ", "tags": ["Hotels", "Travel", "Bed & breakfast directory", "Life and style"], "title": "Bed & breakfast directory: Towns and cities: Scotland"},{"date": "2008-04-04T12:56:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Speed is not a familiar concept in the highlands and islands of Scotland. Single track roads with passing places that follow the whims of convoluted hills and ragged sea lochs are not for those in a hurry.Canny locals know the enjoyment of their roads less travelled is in inverse proportion to the speed they travel along them - to cycle in the Outer Hebrides, or hike old cattle droving trails in Argyll, is to savour the essence of a land that time has passed by.Kindred spirits may be found at the following:Halfway along a dead-end road to the most westerly point of mainland Britain is a self-contained apartment sleeping seven by the shores of Loch Sunart, owned by a ferryman and his wife. A boat is provided for fishing and wildlife watching. This is the domain of red deer, otter, mink, wild cat, sea eagles, porpoises, dolphins and seals, and in summer the ferryman runs whale-watching trips. For serious escapists there is a cottage on an island in the loch sleeping six (with 16ft boat). \u00b7 From \u00a3480 a week; +44 (0)1972 500222, west-scotland-tourism.com/ardnamurchan-charters/Accommodation.html Walks on the wild side of Argyll from three cottages with open fires sleeping four to eight, refurbished to high standards, on a 700-acre sporting estate overlooking Loch Fyne. Stroll through oak woods to a private beach, and look out for more than 100 species of birds. Trout fishing, sea fishing, deer stalking, clay pigeon shooting and children's night time wildlife safaris by arrangement. Good pub popular with sailors in the nearby Kames Hotel. \u00b7 From \u00a3370 a week; +44 (0) 1700 811623, ardmarnoch.co.uk\u00b7 From \u00a370 per person a night, including five-course dinner and full Scottish breakfast with smoked salmon and champagne; +44 (0) 1776 853220, lighthousehotel.co.ukNear the end of a single track road in the heart of Rob Roy Macgregor country in the Trossachs, an 18th-century farmstead transformed into a boutique hotel and award-winning restaurant by the farmer's sons and daughter. Scenic strolls to where Macgregor lived and died, with a path from his grave rising through a forest to a high bluff with arguably the finest panorama of Strathyre. There is trout fishing a few steps away in Lochs Voile and Doine, and golf courses nearby in Callander and Aberfoyle. \u00b7 Full board for two from \u00a3187 a night; +44 (0)1877 384622, mhor.netBy the ferry terminal in Leverburgh, South Harris, a warm, friendly independent hostel with four-bed rooms and one six-bed family room, centrally heated but with an open peat fire in a communal sitting room. Boat and bike hire for exploring sea lochs, huge beaches, and the spectacular \"golden road\" to Tarbert. Look out for basking sharks, golden eagles, and a good restaurant with fresh fish near the pier. Try to be there on July 29 for the South Harris Agricultural Show. \u00b7 From \u00a312 per person a night; +44 (0)1859 520251, ambothan.com\u00b7 Double rooms from \u00a376 a night; +44 (0)1770 302220, glenartney-arran.co.ukOn the gentler east coast, this is a haven for golfers and gourmets, and a rustic base for walks by the seaside. There are 20 golf courses, including St Andrews, within a 15-minute drive of this 17th-century coaching inn. Scenic fishing villages and coastal paths are also nearby \u2013 the four-mile walk from Crail to Anstruther is superb. Creative cuisine with gastronomic menus on request. \u00b7 B&B from \u00a360 per person a night; +44 (0)1334 840494, theinn.co.uk In the heart of Sir Walter Scott's border country, the Southern Upland Way follows cattle droving trails over a rumpled patchwork quilt of green hills. After a day's walk above Ettrick Water, this four-star country hotel provides the requisite hot bath, fluffy bathrobe and decent Chardonnay. For livelier action, the site of the Battle of Philiphaugh in 1645 still echoes to bloody strife - it is now the home of Selkirk Rugby Club. \u00b7 Double room with breakfast from \u00a3120 a night; +44 (0)1750 20747,  philipburnhousehotel.co.ukThis hostelry on the \"bonnie banks\" of arguably the country's most scenic loch is a good stopover to unwind, and get in tune with slower rhythms. Rooms with personal saunas and balconies are so close to the water's edge it is like being on a boat. A swim followed by an Indian head massage in the spa may be enough to work up an appetite for tasty fare in the glass-fronted restaurant with panoramic views of Ben Lomond. \u00b7 Double rooms with breakfast from \u00a399 a night; +44 (0)1436 860203,  loch-lomond.co.ukFor total freedom and a novel perspective of the western highlands and islands, cruise among them on a yacht out of this little harbour near Oban. No sailing experience required, as skipper David Lyle comes with the boat if required. You choose where to go, what to see and where to drop anchor. Plot a course through the sound of Mull in the 38ft Red Jem to explore rarely visited islands en route and wilderness areas of Morven and Ardnamurchan. Maximum speed about 7mph. \u00b7 Eight-berth yacht from \u00a31,600 a week plus \u00a3400 for the skipper; +44 (0)7709 086934, crystalyachtcharter.com", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Green travel", "Hotels", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel", "Top 10s"], "title": "Go slow in Scotland"},{"date": "2008-09-04T10:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So unpopular is the council tax in Scotland that in some polls, 88% of people want it abolished. The penny has dropped even with Labour north of the border. Recently all three candidates for their Holyrood parliamentary leadership have indicated that they want it eliminated. However, true to Labour form, dithering holds sway and \u2013 astonishingly for leadership candidates \u2013 they are not sure what they want it replaced with.The abolition of the council tax, and the introduction of local income tax \u2013 LIT \u2013 was one of the SNP's keynote and most popular manifesto promises at the 2007 Scottish election. It is reckoned that 80% of households will be better, or no worse, off. Prior to the election, one of the socialist parties, of which there never seems to be any shortage, highlighted the case of a Labour now ex-MSP advocate (someone who practices at the Scottish bar) who had fee income of about 10 times the earnings of his constituents, but who was paying council tax at only two to three times the rate of the average constituency wage. In parlance for once common to both Socialists and Daily Mail headline writers, it was another example of fat cats winning under Labour. However, LIT is not a tax to crucify the rich, but a means of ensuring everybody pays their fair share according to their means. In fact only the top 10% of earners face higher payments. The council tax is an unfair tax and is the first cousin of the hated poll tax in the way that it is blind to earnings. The standard Labour criticism surrounding LIT is that attaches only to earned income, meaning that other income and assets (particularly of the wealthy) are immune from the taxman in the way that was not the case under a property tax. However, if that complaint can be made of an LIT at 3%, surely those voices, to be logically consistent, will be in the same breath criticising a national income tax at a 10 times greater rate. But there's an even more forceful argument \u2013 as my colleague Richard Thomson, the prospective SNP candidate for Gordon at the next general election, has demonstrated. The median level of unearned income in Scotland, according to HMRC is \u00a3160. Just over a million Scots rack up less than this, just over a million more. Making unearned income subject to 3% LIT would mean sending bills to over 1 million Scots for less than a fiver, while the small band of determined super-rich use their accountants to escape the tax.Another criticism of LIT is that the SNP have proposed that the 3% rate will be set nationally across all Scottish councils. Critics therefore argue that only the amount collected will be local, and not the rate levied. The Liberal Democrats, who otherwise espouse a policy very similar to the SNP's position, want councils to set the rate locally. My party counters that a national rate set for local collection is the easiest for administration, in tandem with PAYE. Labour also deploys the bizarre argument that the LIT will not raise as much from the taxpayer as the present council tax, claiming it would need to be at least 4.5% to achieve similar revenues. It seems to have escaped them that this is, in effect, an admission of how much they are squeezing low-earners and hardworking families under the current scheme \u2013 not to mention research by Labour-controlled Glasgow City council, which shows that 72% of Glaswegians would be better off under the SNP's LIT. The fact that Labour continues to argue against LIT can clearly only be good news for the SNP.In Scotland under Labour, council tax increased by 60%. Analyse the facts and the injustices pile ever higher; the present system permits a scenario where the council tax in Glasgow on a Band A property is broadly similar to a Band E property in Westminster, London!Lurking in among all these facts and arguments across the Scottish landscape is the shadow of Westminster government and Labour ministers apparently doing their utmost to be high-handed, haughty and generally unpopular. London Labour is trying to deny Scotland \u00a3400m currently granted to councils in council tax support should Scotland decide to proceed with badly needed reform in this devolved area. If Labour's London brigade thwart LIT they may win a battle until the general election, but will then lose the war, with Glasgow East-style earthquakes writ large throughout Scotland. As yet, no Labour MP has argued publicly that the Scottish government should be treated fairly regarding money already coming to Scotland. The clock is ticking. Ultimately LIT will come \u2013 the arithmetic in the Scottish parliament makes this likely. When it does there will, understandably, be a clamour for a similarly fair tax in England. And so we have another area where Scotland, acting independently, can demonstrate benefits for its nearest and dearest neighbours.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Council tax", "Income tax", "Local government", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Angus MacNeil: Labour cannot prevent local income tax"},{"date": "2008-09-04T10:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So unpopular is the council tax in Scotland that in some polls, 88% of people want it abolished. The penny has dropped even with Labour north of the border. Recently all three candidates for their Holyrood parliamentary leadership have indicated that they want it eliminated. However, true to Labour form, dithering holds sway and \u2013 astonishingly for leadership candidates \u2013 they are not sure what they want it replaced with.The abolition of the council tax, and the introduction of local income tax \u2013 LIT \u2013 was one of the SNP's keynote and most popular manifesto promises at the 2007 Scottish election. It is reckoned that 80% of households will be better, or no worse, off. Prior to the election, one of the socialist parties, of which there never seems to be any shortage, highlighted the case of a Labour now ex-MSP advocate (someone who practices at the Scottish bar) who had fee income of about 10 times the earnings of his constituents, but who was paying council tax at only two to three times the rate of the average constituency wage. In parlance for once common to both Socialists and Daily Mail headline writers, it was another example of fat cats winning under Labour. However, LIT is not a tax to crucify the rich, but a means of ensuring everybody pays their fair share according to their means. In fact only the top 10% of earners face higher payments. The council tax is an unfair tax and is the first cousin of the hated poll tax in the way that it is blind to earnings. The standard Labour criticism surrounding LIT is that attaches only to earned income, meaning that other income and assets (particularly of the wealthy) are immune from the taxman in the way that was not the case under a property tax. However, if that complaint can be made of an LIT at 3%, surely those voices, to be logically consistent, will be in the same breath criticising a national income tax at a 10 times greater rate. But there's an even more forceful argument \u2013 as my colleague Richard Thomson, the prospective SNP candidate for Gordon at the next general election, has demonstrated. The median level of unearned income in Scotland, according to HMRC is \u00a3160. Just over a million Scots rack up less than this, just over a million more. Making unearned income subject to 3% LIT would mean sending bills to over 1 million Scots for less than a fiver, while the small band of determined super-rich use their accountants to escape the tax.Another criticism of LIT is that the SNP have proposed that the 3% rate will be set nationally across all Scottish councils. Critics therefore argue that only the amount collected will be local, and not the rate levied. The Liberal Democrats, who otherwise espouse a policy very similar to the SNP's position, want councils to set the rate locally. My party counters that a national rate set for local collection is the easiest for administration, in tandem with PAYE. Labour also deploys the bizarre argument that the LIT will not raise as much from the taxpayer as the present council tax, claiming it would need to be at least 4.5% to achieve similar revenues. It seems to have escaped them that this is, in effect, an admission of how much they are squeezing low-earners and hardworking families under the current scheme \u2013 not to mention research by Labour-controlled Glasgow City council, which shows that 72% of Glaswegians would be better off under the SNP's LIT. The fact that Labour continues to argue against LIT can clearly only be good news for the SNP.In Scotland under Labour, council tax increased by 60%. Analyse the facts and the injustices pile ever higher; the present system permits a scenario where the council tax in Glasgow on a Band A property is broadly similar to a Band E property in Westminster, London!Lurking in among all these facts and arguments across the Scottish landscape is the shadow of Westminster government and Labour ministers apparently doing their utmost to be high-handed, haughty and generally unpopular. London Labour is trying to deny Scotland \u00a3400m currently granted to councils in council tax support should Scotland decide to proceed with badly needed reform in this devolved area. If Labour's London brigade thwart LIT they may win a battle until the general election, but will then lose the war, with Glasgow East-style earthquakes writ large throughout Scotland. As yet, no Labour MP has argued publicly that the Scottish government should be treated fairly regarding money already coming to Scotland. The clock is ticking. Ultimately LIT will come \u2013 the arithmetic in the Scottish parliament makes this likely. When it does there will, understandably, be a clamour for a similarly fair tax in England. And so we have another area where Scotland, acting independently, can demonstrate benefits for its nearest and dearest neighbours.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Council tax", "Income tax", "Local government", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Angus MacNeil: Labour cannot prevent local income tax"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Garry O'Connor's hopes of a fresh start in international football have been temporarily ended, after the striker withdrew from Scotland's squad for Saturday's game in Macedonia and the match in Iceland a week today.O'Connor, who was briefly frozen out of the Scotland scene after failing to report for a match in Ukraine two years ago, lost his place last season after failing to command a regular starting place at Birmingham City. The Scotland manager, George Burley, recalled him for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers but a groin injury means he will miss out.The veteran David Weir also withdrew from Burley's party yesterday and Norwich City's goalkeeper David Marshall did likewise on Sunday. The Aberdeen goalkeeper Jamie Langfield and the Rangers defender Kirk Broadfoot have been added and more alterations may follow, with serious injury doubts hanging over James Morrison and Callum Davidson.", "tags": ["Scotland", "World Cup 2010", "Iceland", "Football", "World Cup"], "title": "Football: Garry O'Connor misses Scotland chance through groin injury"},{"date": "2008-09-04T10:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So unpopular is the council tax in Scotland that in some polls, 88% of people want it abolished. The penny has dropped even with Labour north of the border. Recently all three candidates for their Holyrood parliamentary leadership have indicated that they want it eliminated. However, true to Labour form, dithering holds sway and \u2013 astonishingly for leadership candidates \u2013 they are not sure what they want it replaced with.The abolition of the council tax, and the introduction of local income tax \u2013 LIT \u2013 was one of the SNP's keynote and most popular manifesto promises at the 2007 Scottish election. It is reckoned that 80% of households will be better, or no worse, off. Prior to the election, one of the socialist parties, of which there never seems to be any shortage, highlighted the case of a Labour now ex-MSP advocate (someone who practices at the Scottish bar) who had fee income of about 10 times the earnings of his constituents, but who was paying council tax at only two to three times the rate of the average constituency wage. In parlance for once common to both Socialists and Daily Mail headline writers, it was another example of fat cats winning under Labour. However, LIT is not a tax to crucify the rich, but a means of ensuring everybody pays their fair share according to their means. In fact only the top 10% of earners face higher payments. The council tax is an unfair tax and is the first cousin of the hated poll tax in the way that it is blind to earnings. The standard Labour criticism surrounding LIT is that attaches only to earned income, meaning that other income and assets (particularly of the wealthy) are immune from the taxman in the way that was not the case under a property tax. However, if that complaint can be made of an LIT at 3%, surely those voices, to be logically consistent, will be in the same breath criticising a national income tax at a 10 times greater rate. But there's an even more forceful argument \u2013 as my colleague Richard Thomson, the prospective SNP candidate for Gordon at the next general election, has demonstrated. The median level of unearned income in Scotland, according to HMRC is \u00a3160. Just over a million Scots rack up less than this, just over a million more. Making unearned income subject to 3% LIT would mean sending bills to over 1 million Scots for less than a fiver, while the small band of determined super-rich use their accountants to escape the tax.Another criticism of LIT is that the SNP have proposed that the 3% rate will be set nationally across all Scottish councils. Critics therefore argue that only the amount collected will be local, and not the rate levied. The Liberal Democrats, who otherwise espouse a policy very similar to the SNP's position, want councils to set the rate locally. My party counters that a national rate set for local collection is the easiest for administration, in tandem with PAYE. Labour also deploys the bizarre argument that the LIT will not raise as much from the taxpayer as the present council tax, claiming it would need to be at least 4.5% to achieve similar revenues. It seems to have escaped them that this is, in effect, an admission of how much they are squeezing low-earners and hardworking families under the current scheme \u2013 not to mention research by Labour-controlled Glasgow City council, which shows that 72% of Glaswegians would be better off under the SNP's LIT. The fact that Labour continues to argue against LIT can clearly only be good news for the SNP.In Scotland under Labour, council tax increased by 60%. Analyse the facts and the injustices pile ever higher; the present system permits a scenario where the council tax in Glasgow on a Band A property is broadly similar to a Band E property in Westminster, London!Lurking in among all these facts and arguments across the Scottish landscape is the shadow of Westminster government and Labour ministers apparently doing their utmost to be high-handed, haughty and generally unpopular. London Labour is trying to deny Scotland \u00a3400m currently granted to councils in council tax support should Scotland decide to proceed with badly needed reform in this devolved area. If Labour's London brigade thwart LIT they may win a battle until the general election, but will then lose the war, with Glasgow East-style earthquakes writ large throughout Scotland. As yet, no Labour MP has argued publicly that the Scottish government should be treated fairly regarding money already coming to Scotland. The clock is ticking. Ultimately LIT will come \u2013 the arithmetic in the Scottish parliament makes this likely. When it does there will, understandably, be a clamour for a similarly fair tax in England. And so we have another area where Scotland, acting independently, can demonstrate benefits for its nearest and dearest neighbours.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Council tax", "Income tax", "Local government", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Angus MacNeil: Labour cannot prevent local income tax"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Garry O'Connor's hopes of a fresh start in international football have been temporarily ended, after the striker withdrew from Scotland's squad for Saturday's game in Macedonia and the match in Iceland a week today.O'Connor, who was briefly frozen out of the Scotland scene after failing to report for a match in Ukraine two years ago, lost his place last season after failing to command a regular starting place at Birmingham City. The Scotland manager, George Burley, recalled him for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers but a groin injury means he will miss out.The veteran David Weir also withdrew from Burley's party yesterday and Norwich City's goalkeeper David Marshall did likewise on Sunday. The Aberdeen goalkeeper Jamie Langfield and the Rangers defender Kirk Broadfoot have been added and more alterations may follow, with serious injury doubts hanging over James Morrison and Callum Davidson.", "tags": ["Scotland", "World Cup 2010", "Iceland", "Football", "World Cup"], "title": "Football: Garry O'Connor misses Scotland chance through groin injury"},{"date": "2008-08-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Britain suffered flooding yesterday after downpours from southern England to Scotland.The wettest weather was in Scotland, where 53mm of rain (just over two inches) fell at Edinburgh Airport in 24 hours.A number of roads in Edinburgh were closed because of the downpours. Around 10 houses in Brunstane Mill Road were flooded after the Figgate Burn burst its banks. Firefighters were using portable pumps to take water out of the houses. There were also fears of flooding in Renfrewshire, with concerns that a dam could burst.The Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) said there was one severe flood warning and six flood warnings in place across Scotland.Train services between Edinburgh and Glasgow Queen Street and from North Berwick to the Scottish capital were also disrupted, with warnings to expect cancellations and delays.Julian Mayes, senior forecaster with MeteoGroup, the weather division of the Press Association, said: \"We can expect more unsettled weather at the weekend, but it will be cooler and more breezy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland hit by floods"},{"date": "2008-09-04T10:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So unpopular is the council tax in Scotland that in some polls, 88% of people want it abolished. The penny has dropped even with Labour north of the border. Recently all three candidates for their Holyrood parliamentary leadership have indicated that they want it eliminated. However, true to Labour form, dithering holds sway and \u2013 astonishingly for leadership candidates \u2013 they are not sure what they want it replaced with.The abolition of the council tax, and the introduction of local income tax \u2013 LIT \u2013 was one of the SNP's keynote and most popular manifesto promises at the 2007 Scottish election. It is reckoned that 80% of households will be better, or no worse, off. Prior to the election, one of the socialist parties, of which there never seems to be any shortage, highlighted the case of a Labour now ex-MSP advocate (someone who practices at the Scottish bar) who had fee income of about 10 times the earnings of his constituents, but who was paying council tax at only two to three times the rate of the average constituency wage. In parlance for once common to both Socialists and Daily Mail headline writers, it was another example of fat cats winning under Labour. However, LIT is not a tax to crucify the rich, but a means of ensuring everybody pays their fair share according to their means. In fact only the top 10% of earners face higher payments. The council tax is an unfair tax and is the first cousin of the hated poll tax in the way that it is blind to earnings. The standard Labour criticism surrounding LIT is that attaches only to earned income, meaning that other income and assets (particularly of the wealthy) are immune from the taxman in the way that was not the case under a property tax. However, if that complaint can be made of an LIT at 3%, surely those voices, to be logically consistent, will be in the same breath criticising a national income tax at a 10 times greater rate. But there's an even more forceful argument \u2013 as my colleague Richard Thomson, the prospective SNP candidate for Gordon at the next general election, has demonstrated. The median level of unearned income in Scotland, according to HMRC is \u00a3160. Just over a million Scots rack up less than this, just over a million more. Making unearned income subject to 3% LIT would mean sending bills to over 1 million Scots for less than a fiver, while the small band of determined super-rich use their accountants to escape the tax.Another criticism of LIT is that the SNP have proposed that the 3% rate will be set nationally across all Scottish councils. Critics therefore argue that only the amount collected will be local, and not the rate levied. The Liberal Democrats, who otherwise espouse a policy very similar to the SNP's position, want councils to set the rate locally. My party counters that a national rate set for local collection is the easiest for administration, in tandem with PAYE. Labour also deploys the bizarre argument that the LIT will not raise as much from the taxpayer as the present council tax, claiming it would need to be at least 4.5% to achieve similar revenues. It seems to have escaped them that this is, in effect, an admission of how much they are squeezing low-earners and hardworking families under the current scheme \u2013 not to mention research by Labour-controlled Glasgow City council, which shows that 72% of Glaswegians would be better off under the SNP's LIT. The fact that Labour continues to argue against LIT can clearly only be good news for the SNP.In Scotland under Labour, council tax increased by 60%. Analyse the facts and the injustices pile ever higher; the present system permits a scenario where the council tax in Glasgow on a Band A property is broadly similar to a Band E property in Westminster, London!Lurking in among all these facts and arguments across the Scottish landscape is the shadow of Westminster government and Labour ministers apparently doing their utmost to be high-handed, haughty and generally unpopular. London Labour is trying to deny Scotland \u00a3400m currently granted to councils in council tax support should Scotland decide to proceed with badly needed reform in this devolved area. If Labour's London brigade thwart LIT they may win a battle until the general election, but will then lose the war, with Glasgow East-style earthquakes writ large throughout Scotland. As yet, no Labour MP has argued publicly that the Scottish government should be treated fairly regarding money already coming to Scotland. The clock is ticking. Ultimately LIT will come \u2013 the arithmetic in the Scottish parliament makes this likely. When it does there will, understandably, be a clamour for a similarly fair tax in England. And so we have another area where Scotland, acting independently, can demonstrate benefits for its nearest and dearest neighbours.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Council tax", "Income tax", "Local government", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Angus MacNeil: Labour cannot prevent local income tax"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Garry O'Connor's hopes of a fresh start in international football have been temporarily ended, after the striker withdrew from Scotland's squad for Saturday's game in Macedonia and the match in Iceland a week today.O'Connor, who was briefly frozen out of the Scotland scene after failing to report for a match in Ukraine two years ago, lost his place last season after failing to command a regular starting place at Birmingham City. The Scotland manager, George Burley, recalled him for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers but a groin injury means he will miss out.The veteran David Weir also withdrew from Burley's party yesterday and Norwich City's goalkeeper David Marshall did likewise on Sunday. The Aberdeen goalkeeper Jamie Langfield and the Rangers defender Kirk Broadfoot have been added and more alterations may follow, with serious injury doubts hanging over James Morrison and Callum Davidson.", "tags": ["Scotland", "World Cup 2010", "Iceland", "Football", "World Cup"], "title": "Football: Garry O'Connor misses Scotland chance through groin injury"},{"date": "2008-08-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Britain suffered flooding yesterday after downpours from southern England to Scotland.The wettest weather was in Scotland, where 53mm of rain (just over two inches) fell at Edinburgh Airport in 24 hours.A number of roads in Edinburgh were closed because of the downpours. Around 10 houses in Brunstane Mill Road were flooded after the Figgate Burn burst its banks. Firefighters were using portable pumps to take water out of the houses. There were also fears of flooding in Renfrewshire, with concerns that a dam could burst.The Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) said there was one severe flood warning and six flood warnings in place across Scotland.Train services between Edinburgh and Glasgow Queen Street and from North Berwick to the Scottish capital were also disrupted, with warnings to expect cancellations and delays.Julian Mayes, senior forecaster with MeteoGroup, the weather division of the Press Association, said: \"We can expect more unsettled weather at the weekend, but it will be cooler and more breezy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland hit by floods"},{"date": "2008-09-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Broadcasting Commission for Scotland - which reported last week - was set up by Alex Salmond in one of his first acts after winning control of the Scottish parliament. Amid much talk of emergent nationhood, broadcasting was seen as a key battleground and expectations for last week's report were high. Yet in Scotland, while there has been broad support, there has been clear disappointment in some quarters - whilst in the London-based UK press the story was little covered and has already faded from view. The report was expected to cause fireworks, but its reception has been not so much big bang as dull phut. To understand why, one needs to look not so much at what the report did do as at what it didn't. The central recommendation was for the establishment of a Scottish digital channel (somewhat grandiosely described throughout as a \"network\") with a budget of between \u00a350m and \u00a375m a year. This is meant to be the primary vehicle for \"public service competition\" with the BBC.Many people - in Scotland at least - quite like this idea, which has also attracted broad political support. There are issues of course. Who pays for it? The report says it should be the UK government as part of a \"new PSB settlement\". Even if the channel got all the money it wants, it could never compete effectively in drama, comedy, entertainment, news and current affairs, documentary and so on; and could it ever achieve the reach and impact necessary to provide genuine plurality?Meanwhile, more pressing questions about the current broadcasting set-up in Scotland appear to have been ducked. The much discussed \"Scottish Six\" question is one of them. The demand for a Scottish-based national and international news programme on the BBC is a longstanding one. And as devolution has gathered pace with local administrations taking responsibility for more and more aspects of policy, arguments against it have become thinner and thinner. Since being criticised in its own impartiality review for its coverage of Scotland, the BBC has clearly smartened up its act. Yet the agenda issue remains a critical one. In TV terms, it is hard to imagine anything being more significant for a developing sense of nationhood than a major national and international news programme, with access to the BBC's unrivalled newsgathering network, being run from Scotland for Scotland. But the commission doesn't go there and the BBC is let off the hook. And ITV in Scotland? The national licensee - STV - has the highest satisfaction ratings and the lowest dissatisfaction ratings of any TV channel in Scotland. It also has reach and impact amongst audiences that more than matches the BBC's. And while this is primarily due to the popularity of a good few of ITV's network programmes with Scottish viewers, the reach and impact this confers on STV's news and information services would be virtually impossible to replicate - and certainly well beyond anything suggested in the broadcasting commission's report. Yet there is little detailed analysis of STV's position or of potential regulatory measures that might preserve the service at least up to and beyond digital switchover.Lastly, Salmond's earlier stated objective that responsibility for the regulation of broadcasting should be devolved to Scotland is replaced by a general call for the Scottish parliament to take a greater interest in broadcasting matters.There is plenty in the report about increasing UK broadcasters' investment in production north of the border, combined with a strong push to improve the performance and sustainability of Scotland's creative economy which will no doubt be widely welcomed. Although in many respects - with new BBC production quotas and Channel 4 targets - this process is already under way. Meanwhile the report overall is already in danger of being seen as a political fix and a missed opportunity. By avoiding the vexed issue of the \"Scottish Six\" - the b\u00eate noir of Scottish Labour politicians at Westminster who fear that they'll disappear from view in Scotland if it ever happened - sidelining ITV, glossing over regulatory devolution and choosing to focus instead on a big new digital channel idea (no matter how realistic), the commission has created a consensus across political lines. And then when Westminster declines to find the \u00a375m needed to fund it Salmond will have yet more evidence of English perfidy.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Media", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Steve Hewlett: Alex Salmond sets up the Broadcasting Commission for Scotland"},{"date": "2008-09-04T10:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So unpopular is the council tax in Scotland that in some polls, 88% of people want it abolished. The penny has dropped even with Labour north of the border. Recently all three candidates for their Holyrood parliamentary leadership have indicated that they want it eliminated. However, true to Labour form, dithering holds sway and \u2013 astonishingly for leadership candidates \u2013 they are not sure what they want it replaced with.The abolition of the council tax, and the introduction of local income tax \u2013 LIT \u2013 was one of the SNP's keynote and most popular manifesto promises at the 2007 Scottish election. It is reckoned that 80% of households will be better, or no worse, off. Prior to the election, one of the socialist parties, of which there never seems to be any shortage, highlighted the case of a Labour now ex-MSP advocate (someone who practices at the Scottish bar) who had fee income of about 10 times the earnings of his constituents, but who was paying council tax at only two to three times the rate of the average constituency wage. In parlance for once common to both Socialists and Daily Mail headline writers, it was another example of fat cats winning under Labour. However, LIT is not a tax to crucify the rich, but a means of ensuring everybody pays their fair share according to their means. In fact only the top 10% of earners face higher payments. The council tax is an unfair tax and is the first cousin of the hated poll tax in the way that it is blind to earnings. The standard Labour criticism surrounding LIT is that attaches only to earned income, meaning that other income and assets (particularly of the wealthy) are immune from the taxman in the way that was not the case under a property tax. However, if that complaint can be made of an LIT at 3%, surely those voices, to be logically consistent, will be in the same breath criticising a national income tax at a 10 times greater rate. But there's an even more forceful argument \u2013 as my colleague Richard Thomson, the prospective SNP candidate for Gordon at the next general election, has demonstrated. The median level of unearned income in Scotland, according to HMRC is \u00a3160. Just over a million Scots rack up less than this, just over a million more. Making unearned income subject to 3% LIT would mean sending bills to over 1 million Scots for less than a fiver, while the small band of determined super-rich use their accountants to escape the tax.Another criticism of LIT is that the SNP have proposed that the 3% rate will be set nationally across all Scottish councils. Critics therefore argue that only the amount collected will be local, and not the rate levied. The Liberal Democrats, who otherwise espouse a policy very similar to the SNP's position, want councils to set the rate locally. My party counters that a national rate set for local collection is the easiest for administration, in tandem with PAYE. Labour also deploys the bizarre argument that the LIT will not raise as much from the taxpayer as the present council tax, claiming it would need to be at least 4.5% to achieve similar revenues. It seems to have escaped them that this is, in effect, an admission of how much they are squeezing low-earners and hardworking families under the current scheme \u2013 not to mention research by Labour-controlled Glasgow City council, which shows that 72% of Glaswegians would be better off under the SNP's LIT. The fact that Labour continues to argue against LIT can clearly only be good news for the SNP.In Scotland under Labour, council tax increased by 60%. Analyse the facts and the injustices pile ever higher; the present system permits a scenario where the council tax in Glasgow on a Band A property is broadly similar to a Band E property in Westminster, London!Lurking in among all these facts and arguments across the Scottish landscape is the shadow of Westminster government and Labour ministers apparently doing their utmost to be high-handed, haughty and generally unpopular. London Labour is trying to deny Scotland \u00a3400m currently granted to councils in council tax support should Scotland decide to proceed with badly needed reform in this devolved area. If Labour's London brigade thwart LIT they may win a battle until the general election, but will then lose the war, with Glasgow East-style earthquakes writ large throughout Scotland. As yet, no Labour MP has argued publicly that the Scottish government should be treated fairly regarding money already coming to Scotland. The clock is ticking. Ultimately LIT will come \u2013 the arithmetic in the Scottish parliament makes this likely. When it does there will, understandably, be a clamour for a similarly fair tax in England. And so we have another area where Scotland, acting independently, can demonstrate benefits for its nearest and dearest neighbours.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Council tax", "Income tax", "Local government", "Society", "UK news"], "title": "Angus MacNeil: Labour cannot prevent local income tax"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Garry O'Connor's hopes of a fresh start in international football have been temporarily ended, after the striker withdrew from Scotland's squad for Saturday's game in Macedonia and the match in Iceland a week today.O'Connor, who was briefly frozen out of the Scotland scene after failing to report for a match in Ukraine two years ago, lost his place last season after failing to command a regular starting place at Birmingham City. The Scotland manager, George Burley, recalled him for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers but a groin injury means he will miss out.The veteran David Weir also withdrew from Burley's party yesterday and Norwich City's goalkeeper David Marshall did likewise on Sunday. The Aberdeen goalkeeper Jamie Langfield and the Rangers defender Kirk Broadfoot have been added and more alterations may follow, with serious injury doubts hanging over James Morrison and Callum Davidson.", "tags": ["Scotland", "World Cup 2010", "Iceland", "Football", "World Cup"], "title": "Football: Garry O'Connor misses Scotland chance through groin injury"},{"date": "2008-08-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Britain suffered flooding yesterday after downpours from southern England to Scotland.The wettest weather was in Scotland, where 53mm of rain (just over two inches) fell at Edinburgh Airport in 24 hours.A number of roads in Edinburgh were closed because of the downpours. Around 10 houses in Brunstane Mill Road were flooded after the Figgate Burn burst its banks. Firefighters were using portable pumps to take water out of the houses. There were also fears of flooding in Renfrewshire, with concerns that a dam could burst.The Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) said there was one severe flood warning and six flood warnings in place across Scotland.Train services between Edinburgh and Glasgow Queen Street and from North Berwick to the Scottish capital were also disrupted, with warnings to expect cancellations and delays.Julian Mayes, senior forecaster with MeteoGroup, the weather division of the Press Association, said: \"We can expect more unsettled weather at the weekend, but it will be cooler and more breezy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland hit by floods"},{"date": "2008-09-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Broadcasting Commission for Scotland - which reported last week - was set up by Alex Salmond in one of his first acts after winning control of the Scottish parliament. Amid much talk of emergent nationhood, broadcasting was seen as a key battleground and expectations for last week's report were high. Yet in Scotland, while there has been broad support, there has been clear disappointment in some quarters - whilst in the London-based UK press the story was little covered and has already faded from view. The report was expected to cause fireworks, but its reception has been not so much big bang as dull phut. To understand why, one needs to look not so much at what the report did do as at what it didn't. The central recommendation was for the establishment of a Scottish digital channel (somewhat grandiosely described throughout as a \"network\") with a budget of between \u00a350m and \u00a375m a year. This is meant to be the primary vehicle for \"public service competition\" with the BBC.Many people - in Scotland at least - quite like this idea, which has also attracted broad political support. There are issues of course. Who pays for it? The report says it should be the UK government as part of a \"new PSB settlement\". Even if the channel got all the money it wants, it could never compete effectively in drama, comedy, entertainment, news and current affairs, documentary and so on; and could it ever achieve the reach and impact necessary to provide genuine plurality?Meanwhile, more pressing questions about the current broadcasting set-up in Scotland appear to have been ducked. The much discussed \"Scottish Six\" question is one of them. The demand for a Scottish-based national and international news programme on the BBC is a longstanding one. And as devolution has gathered pace with local administrations taking responsibility for more and more aspects of policy, arguments against it have become thinner and thinner. Since being criticised in its own impartiality review for its coverage of Scotland, the BBC has clearly smartened up its act. Yet the agenda issue remains a critical one. In TV terms, it is hard to imagine anything being more significant for a developing sense of nationhood than a major national and international news programme, with access to the BBC's unrivalled newsgathering network, being run from Scotland for Scotland. But the commission doesn't go there and the BBC is let off the hook. And ITV in Scotland? The national licensee - STV - has the highest satisfaction ratings and the lowest dissatisfaction ratings of any TV channel in Scotland. It also has reach and impact amongst audiences that more than matches the BBC's. And while this is primarily due to the popularity of a good few of ITV's network programmes with Scottish viewers, the reach and impact this confers on STV's news and information services would be virtually impossible to replicate - and certainly well beyond anything suggested in the broadcasting commission's report. Yet there is little detailed analysis of STV's position or of potential regulatory measures that might preserve the service at least up to and beyond digital switchover.Lastly, Salmond's earlier stated objective that responsibility for the regulation of broadcasting should be devolved to Scotland is replaced by a general call for the Scottish parliament to take a greater interest in broadcasting matters.There is plenty in the report about increasing UK broadcasters' investment in production north of the border, combined with a strong push to improve the performance and sustainability of Scotland's creative economy which will no doubt be widely welcomed. Although in many respects - with new BBC production quotas and Channel 4 targets - this process is already under way. Meanwhile the report overall is already in danger of being seen as a political fix and a missed opportunity. By avoiding the vexed issue of the \"Scottish Six\" - the b\u00eate noir of Scottish Labour politicians at Westminster who fear that they'll disappear from view in Scotland if it ever happened - sidelining ITV, glossing over regulatory devolution and choosing to focus instead on a big new digital channel idea (no matter how realistic), the commission has created a consensus across political lines. And then when Westminster declines to find the \u00a375m needed to fund it Salmond will have yet more evidence of English perfidy.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Media", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Steve Hewlett: Alex Salmond sets up the Broadcasting Commission for Scotland"},{"date": "2008-09-03T11:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It's all the rage these days to suggest Gordon Brown look to the United States for inspiration, to see if he can summon up some Obama-style vision and charisma. Apart from the obvious difficulties (looks, personality, political culture, etc) Brown could do a lot worse than take a look in his own backyard \u2013 Scotland. For increasingly, Scotland is beginning to look like the progressive country that we hoped New Labour would produce.The Scots introduced a smoking ban a full year ahead of the English, and proved to their southern cousins that yes, it could work. They have free care for the elderly \u2013 an expensive but essential part of the welfare state, surely. People can have free eye tests north of the border. And now the Scottish executive has just announced the scrapping of parking fees at NHS hospitals.Hospital parking charges may not seem a huge issue to those men in Whitehall, who generally visit hospitals only on official business in their government cars. But to the thousands of people who attend hospitals every day, whether to visit sick friends or relatives, or to attend out-patient appointments, they are quite often the last straw.I recently rushed to hospital with a relative, grabbing only the car keys to follow the ambulance. As a result of NHS re-organisation, the perfectly good local hospital which has served a wide community well for years, is being downgraded. So after several hours in casualty, we were sent off to another hospital some 10 miles away. Again, I followed the ambulance in my car, arriving in the small hours of the morning to find I needed to pay parking charges.Not just small charges either \u2013 \u00a32 an hour, every hour.After the best part of a week, when I and other family members were visiting for long periods of time, we had spent a small fortune on parking charges. We could afford the \u00a312 a day, but there are plenty of people, particularly pensioners, who are more likely to be attending hospitals, who cannot.Apart from the fact that some hospitals are so overstretched that relatives are needed to feed, wash and dress patients, it is obviously better for the patients' wellbeing to have visitors. Yet health minister Ben Bradshaw has dismissed the idea of abolishing hospital charges here with a breezy \"It is not a sensible use of limited resources.\" Well, it's all about priorities \u2013 but it seems to me that the Scottish executive have got their priorities right.Scotland is becoming an increasingly attractive place to live \u2013 and, they've even had better weather than the English this summer.", "tags": ["NHS", "Scotland", "Gordon Brown", "Labour", "Scottish politics", "UK news"], "title": "Jackie Ashley: Gordon Brown could learn from Scotland's decision to scrap parking fees at hositals"},{"date": "2008-12-10T19:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I will introduce a bill into the Scottish parliament for physician-assisted dying because Jeremy Purvis MSP can't. He started the ball rolling in the last parliament, but his bill didn't attract enough signatures to have it debated. Although he would have tried again, as the Lib Dem spokesman on the economy he's far too busy to follow up on the huge response from the public to a debate in Holyrood to which both of us contributed. I have issued a consultation document proposing that physician-assisted dying should be debated and decided on by the Scottish parliament. I was diagnosed as having Parkinson's about 13 years ago, but that's not why I'm seeking firstly, clarification of the law and then to have the concept of autonomy introduced to the issue of assisted dying. I'm an elected legislator, and this lies at the interface of private morality and public policy. In the course of my work as an MSP, and in making a film for the BBC, I've met people who, like me, would like to exercise control over the manner and timing of their death should their condition deteriorate until it becomes intolerable. Opponents of my proposal point to the need for the highest quality palliative care \u2013 all right if you can get it, but not a cast-iron guarantee of a trouble-free, dignified death. For a small number of people, palliative care just doesn't do it. Since it's simply specialised care, it's subject to the same cost-cutting and prioritising as other NHS services. But my first consideration is to persuade MSPs to allow my proposal to be properly scrutinised by the relevant parliamentary committees. The recent cases north and south of the border have highlighted the need to do so. Questions have arisen about the definition of \"assisting\" a suicide. Dan James' parents have not been prosecuted \"in the public interest\" but they stand accused of a criminal offence, and the next person to assist a loved one, or patient, to die at a time of his or her choosing may be charged. I fully respect people whose personal religious or moral code has God giving, and taking life. But there are moral and responsible people who wish to have the option of agreeing, with a qualified and registered physician, in advance of the point at which life might become intolerable, that they would be assisted, at their request, to end it.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Health", "Society", "Law", "UK news"], "title": "Margo MacDonald: I want assisted suicide to be debated in the Scottish parliament"},{"date": "2008-12-10T19:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I will introduce a bill into the Scottish parliament for physician-assisted dying because Jeremy Purvis MSP can't. He started the ball rolling in the last parliament, but his bill didn't attract enough signatures to have it debated. Although he would have tried again, as the Lib Dem spokesman on the economy he's far too busy to follow up on the huge response from the public to a debate in Holyrood to which both of us contributed. I have issued a consultation document proposing that physician-assisted dying should be debated and decided on by the Scottish parliament. I was diagnosed as having Parkinson's about 13 years ago, but that's not why I'm seeking firstly, clarification of the law and then to have the concept of autonomy introduced to the issue of assisted dying. I'm an elected legislator, and this lies at the interface of private morality and public policy. In the course of my work as an MSP, and in making a film for the BBC, I've met people who, like me, would like to exercise control over the manner and timing of their death should their condition deteriorate until it becomes intolerable. Opponents of my proposal point to the need for the highest quality palliative care \u2013 all right if you can get it, but not a cast-iron guarantee of a trouble-free, dignified death. For a small number of people, palliative care just doesn't do it. Since it's simply specialised care, it's subject to the same cost-cutting and prioritising as other NHS services. But my first consideration is to persuade MSPs to allow my proposal to be properly scrutinised by the relevant parliamentary committees. The recent cases north and south of the border have highlighted the need to do so. Questions have arisen about the definition of \"assisting\" a suicide. Dan James' parents have not been prosecuted \"in the public interest\" but they stand accused of a criminal offence, and the next person to assist a loved one, or patient, to die at a time of his or her choosing may be charged. I fully respect people whose personal religious or moral code has God giving, and taking life. But there are moral and responsible people who wish to have the option of agreeing, with a qualified and registered physician, in advance of the point at which life might become intolerable, that they would be assisted, at their request, to end it.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Health", "Society", "Law", "UK news"], "title": "Margo MacDonald: I want assisted suicide to be debated in the Scottish parliament"},{"date": "2008-11-07T11:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Last weekend I was doing phone canvassing for Barack Obama in the key state of Virginia which the Democrats won.Yesterday I was phone canvassing for Gordon Brown in the Glenrothes byelection. The two results are impressive. Might they herald the return of serious adult politics? Having come into parliament in a mid-term by-election in 1994, I am sensitive to the unique Britishness of byelections as political barometers. I cannot recall one so close to a general election in which the ruling party actually increased the size of its vote from 19,395 in 2005 to 19,946 last night.By contrast, the Tory vote went down from 2,651 to 1,381. Were I David Cameron I would want to know why the supposedly rebranded Tories cannot even hold their vote. Instead, after three years of Cameron leadership it is cut in half. In my borough of Rotherham, birthplace of William Hague, the Tories were beaten by the BNP in half the council seats contested in the May 2008 local elections. North of Notting Hill the Tories get weaker and weaker. In the 1950s half of Scotland's MPs were Conservative. When I was elected Tory MPs were to be found everywhere in Yorkshire. Where do the 150 seats the Tories need to form govenment come from?No-one should read Glenrothes into broader UK politics but far from de-toxifying the Tories the \"new millionaires\" front bench promoted by Cameron seems less and less relevant to the nation's needs. The almost comic pronouncement that Cameron with his huge personal household wealth was thinking about making Tory shadow cabinet millionaires give up their lucrative City jobs and other outside earnings underlines the extent of Tory disconnect from the lives of most people.In the US, the most damaging attack on John McCain was the revelation he owned seven homes. As with David Cameron's \u00a321,000-a-week Aegean yacht holiday or \"Oligarch\" Osborne's meetings with Russian billionaires the Tories more and more give the impression of being the party of the rich, by the rich, for the rich.By contrast, Obama comes not from a poor background but one without wealth. Grinding academic work helped him to elite universities and then into politics. Obama comes from America's serious industrial Chicago \u2013 home to Studs Terkel, the chronicler of America's working and underclass who died just before the election.Chicago is also home to nobel laureates in economics, literature, science and medicine. After a succession of southern folksy Democratic presidents \u2013 Clinton, Carter, and LBJ \u2013 there is now a man from the windy north, from the city closest to Edinburgh in the USA. It is clear that we are quitting the age of GQ and Vanity Fair politics for a more austere, serious, sober era of politics. Gladstone rather than Disraeli; brains not bling; moral not meretricious; global not nationalistic. With luck we may be seeing the end of populism incarnated by the bombast of Alex Salmond, the ignorance of Sarah Palin or the style of Silvio Berlusconi summed up in today's Metro headline: \"The Italian Gob\" after he described Obama as \"tanned\". Not even William Hague's xenophobic populist cracks about Europeans can match Silvio's gob-like behaviour.Were I Nick Clegg I would worry that the Lib Dem vote fell from 4,728 in 2005 to a miserable 947 yesterday. This close to the seats of Lib Dem grandees like Sir Menzies Campbell. Clegg's repositioning the Lib Dems as the Tory Lite party instead of staying on the progressive side of politics in the manner of Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy may prove a major error of judgment.Too much to read into one by-election? Of course. Yet we are at the end of the second long cycle of postwar politics. The first was the welfare state capitalism that petered out in the 1970 as Labour under Jim Callaghan or the Democrats under Jimmy Carter mis-read where history was heading.The second era based on globalised deregulated capitalism is collapsing in the midst of the economic crisis and America's rejection of the Bush-Cheney-Greenspan axis of greed and nation-first foreign adventurism.No one is yet defining the new era though of the various political responses on offer Gordon Brown's economic leadership seems most in touch with the zeitgeist.The next election is now Labour's to lose. It is now up to Labour ministers, MPs and union leaders to make sure the seriousness of the hour is met with a seriousness of politics and discourse.", "tags": ["Glenrothes byelection", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Denis MacShane: A message from Scotland"},{"date": "2008-12-10T19:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I will introduce a bill into the Scottish parliament for physician-assisted dying because Jeremy Purvis MSP can't. He started the ball rolling in the last parliament, but his bill didn't attract enough signatures to have it debated. Although he would have tried again, as the Lib Dem spokesman on the economy he's far too busy to follow up on the huge response from the public to a debate in Holyrood to which both of us contributed. I have issued a consultation document proposing that physician-assisted dying should be debated and decided on by the Scottish parliament. I was diagnosed as having Parkinson's about 13 years ago, but that's not why I'm seeking firstly, clarification of the law and then to have the concept of autonomy introduced to the issue of assisted dying. I'm an elected legislator, and this lies at the interface of private morality and public policy. In the course of my work as an MSP, and in making a film for the BBC, I've met people who, like me, would like to exercise control over the manner and timing of their death should their condition deteriorate until it becomes intolerable. Opponents of my proposal point to the need for the highest quality palliative care \u2013 all right if you can get it, but not a cast-iron guarantee of a trouble-free, dignified death. For a small number of people, palliative care just doesn't do it. Since it's simply specialised care, it's subject to the same cost-cutting and prioritising as other NHS services. But my first consideration is to persuade MSPs to allow my proposal to be properly scrutinised by the relevant parliamentary committees. The recent cases north and south of the border have highlighted the need to do so. Questions have arisen about the definition of \"assisting\" a suicide. Dan James' parents have not been prosecuted \"in the public interest\" but they stand accused of a criminal offence, and the next person to assist a loved one, or patient, to die at a time of his or her choosing may be charged. I fully respect people whose personal religious or moral code has God giving, and taking life. But there are moral and responsible people who wish to have the option of agreeing, with a qualified and registered physician, in advance of the point at which life might become intolerable, that they would be assisted, at their request, to end it.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Health", "Society", "Law", "UK news"], "title": "Margo MacDonald: I want assisted suicide to be debated in the Scottish parliament"},{"date": "2008-11-07T11:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Last weekend I was doing phone canvassing for Barack Obama in the key state of Virginia which the Democrats won.Yesterday I was phone canvassing for Gordon Brown in the Glenrothes byelection. The two results are impressive. Might they herald the return of serious adult politics? Having come into parliament in a mid-term by-election in 1994, I am sensitive to the unique Britishness of byelections as political barometers. I cannot recall one so close to a general election in which the ruling party actually increased the size of its vote from 19,395 in 2005 to 19,946 last night.By contrast, the Tory vote went down from 2,651 to 1,381. Were I David Cameron I would want to know why the supposedly rebranded Tories cannot even hold their vote. Instead, after three years of Cameron leadership it is cut in half. In my borough of Rotherham, birthplace of William Hague, the Tories were beaten by the BNP in half the council seats contested in the May 2008 local elections. North of Notting Hill the Tories get weaker and weaker. In the 1950s half of Scotland's MPs were Conservative. When I was elected Tory MPs were to be found everywhere in Yorkshire. Where do the 150 seats the Tories need to form govenment come from?No-one should read Glenrothes into broader UK politics but far from de-toxifying the Tories the \"new millionaires\" front bench promoted by Cameron seems less and less relevant to the nation's needs. The almost comic pronouncement that Cameron with his huge personal household wealth was thinking about making Tory shadow cabinet millionaires give up their lucrative City jobs and other outside earnings underlines the extent of Tory disconnect from the lives of most people.In the US, the most damaging attack on John McCain was the revelation he owned seven homes. As with David Cameron's \u00a321,000-a-week Aegean yacht holiday or \"Oligarch\" Osborne's meetings with Russian billionaires the Tories more and more give the impression of being the party of the rich, by the rich, for the rich.By contrast, Obama comes not from a poor background but one without wealth. Grinding academic work helped him to elite universities and then into politics. Obama comes from America's serious industrial Chicago \u2013 home to Studs Terkel, the chronicler of America's working and underclass who died just before the election.Chicago is also home to nobel laureates in economics, literature, science and medicine. After a succession of southern folksy Democratic presidents \u2013 Clinton, Carter, and LBJ \u2013 there is now a man from the windy north, from the city closest to Edinburgh in the USA. It is clear that we are quitting the age of GQ and Vanity Fair politics for a more austere, serious, sober era of politics. Gladstone rather than Disraeli; brains not bling; moral not meretricious; global not nationalistic. With luck we may be seeing the end of populism incarnated by the bombast of Alex Salmond, the ignorance of Sarah Palin or the style of Silvio Berlusconi summed up in today's Metro headline: \"The Italian Gob\" after he described Obama as \"tanned\". Not even William Hague's xenophobic populist cracks about Europeans can match Silvio's gob-like behaviour.Were I Nick Clegg I would worry that the Lib Dem vote fell from 4,728 in 2005 to a miserable 947 yesterday. This close to the seats of Lib Dem grandees like Sir Menzies Campbell. Clegg's repositioning the Lib Dems as the Tory Lite party instead of staying on the progressive side of politics in the manner of Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy may prove a major error of judgment.Too much to read into one by-election? Of course. Yet we are at the end of the second long cycle of postwar politics. The first was the welfare state capitalism that petered out in the 1970 as Labour under Jim Callaghan or the Democrats under Jimmy Carter mis-read where history was heading.The second era based on globalised deregulated capitalism is collapsing in the midst of the economic crisis and America's rejection of the Bush-Cheney-Greenspan axis of greed and nation-first foreign adventurism.No one is yet defining the new era though of the various political responses on offer Gordon Brown's economic leadership seems most in touch with the zeitgeist.The next election is now Labour's to lose. It is now up to Labour ministers, MPs and union leaders to make sure the seriousness of the hour is met with a seriousness of politics and discourse.", "tags": ["Glenrothes byelection", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Denis MacShane: A message from Scotland"},{"date": "2008-10-29T11:29:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Campbeltown is a bit off the beaten track but it contains my favourite bookshop - an oasis of interesting books. My own interest is in Scottish regional histories, and it has a great selection of Scottish books as well as an antiquarian section which turns up some amazing stuff. For everyone else there is a great history section, biography, literature and the rest. Again they have some fascinating out of print and antiquarian books as well, which they also sell online. The owners are friendly and it is the kind of place where politics, religion and philosophy can often be heard being debated among the shelves.Robert BurrellA real treasure of a bookshop. Stocking a comprehensive range of books and the usual accompaniments such as cards, maps and stationary. An extensive selection of titles by Scottish authors, combined with a comprehensive range of books on local history and attractions proves there is everything you need. From the moment you walk in, your enquiry is met with charm and expertise by the three knowledgeable ladies, or the owner, Fiona Roy. This is the embodiment of a great little bookshop: everything you expect and some pleasant surprises!Audrey WedderburnA treasure house of books on Islay's two main claims to fame - Islay Malt Whiskies (we have six - yes, six - working distilleries on our small island) and the legendary Lords of the Isles who ruled vast tracts of the west coast of Scotland during the 14th and 15th centuries from their council at Finlaggan on Islay. In addition, the ever-attentive proprietor Pat Roy has shelves of the latest fiction, a large range of books on general Scottish subjects and a complete section for children and young people. With major cutbacks in the local authority's library service, The Celtic House provides a literally unique book service to our island community.George RhindNot since a 1980s visit to Creative Camera's legendary Bookroom have I encountered a bookshop devoted to photography ... until now. Beyond Words, situated near Edinburgh's historic Royal Mile, is an Aladdin's cave for photography devotees. Here, in a shop staffed by friendly, knowledgeable people you will find countless volumes on the artistic, historical, pictorial and practical aspects of photography. The proprietor, Neil McIlwraith, also holds regular book launches and publisher displays, frequently in conjunction with the nearby Stills Gallery, the most recent being Arizona's Nazraeli Press. Finally, by becoming a \"close friend\" you receive regular newsletters and a discount on purchases.Alistair MaitlandEdinburgh does, in all fairness, have a good few independent and secondhand bookshops, but even among these Transreal Fiction tends to stand out. As may be guessed it specialises in fantasy and science fiction, and the selection of books it has in these two categories is impressive. It lacks the classical independent bookshop image of worn leather sofas and old furnishings, but this is more than made up for by the aforementioned plethora of titles decorating the shelves. For those not into Transreal's rather narrow, specialist field it also sports books on arts, mythology and similar. Well worth the visit.Sigve MoenWord Power - motto \"books to change our world\" - is Edinburgh's pre-eminent radical outlet. Via a tiny, packed, bookstore and a functional website they stock every conceivable alternative, critical and imaginative work. Word Power is run by warm people who believe wholeheartedly in a better world, and resistance though education. Rather than simply flog merchandise they constantly organise talks and events. And they are even located next to Susie's Diner, a great vegetarian caf?Word Power is an old, honest friend to every activist in Edinburgh.Stoned WolfA delight for anyone interested in science fiction and fantasy, although the stock is not restricted to these subjects (it covers a wide range, from children's books upward).The proprietors, Richard and Marion, are booklovers and will go out of their way to get books or advise on availability, publication dates etc. If your desired book is unavailable, they can usually find a number of other books to match your reading tastes As I now live in the Midlands I can't get to them and have to shop via their catalogue.Bill MilesLovely secondhand bookshop in Scotland's book town, specialising in social, environmental and women's interests. Part of the bookshop is set aside for a coffee shop serving homemade cakes. Spent a happy afternoon there on a sunny winter's day a couple of years ago, looking for out-of-print Martha Gellhorn and finding a rare copy of Hemingway's Women by Bernice Kert instead.Maria del Carmen CleggYou'll never find what you're looking for in this extremely cluttered hideaway in the West End, but who knows what else you'll uncover? With tottering piles of literature threatening to take over the shop, and a room devoted to books for under a pound, this is the impecunious browser's paradise. Don't forget to say hello to Trevor the friendly ginger cat, who you'll find asleep on the chair next to the foreign language dictionaries.Anna BullWith just one branch, this small but perfectly formed shop is run by enthusiastic, knowledgeable staff who have a knack of recommending just the right book, and are keen supporters of local writing groups, literary events and readings. With its wonderful range of contemporary fiction, children's, local interest and poetry, the shop has a warm, friendly atmosphere - plus great coffee - and is a much-loved hub of this small market town.Fiona DoakOne of the many cute surprises that await the visitor to Stromness - the capable baker, the quintessential butcher, the extraordinary Pier Arts Centre - is the huge and tiny Stromness Books and Prints. Here are no display tables, no specials, no e-money and no sofas, no drinks, no website, just books - one of everything or it can be obtained chop-chop - and the grizzled Tam McPhail, bookseller, wit. For the resident, this shop like the rest provides the necessities unfailingly - repartee, jokes, shelter in all weathers, and that-book-you-didn't-know-you-wanted-till-you-saw-it-on-the-counter AS THOUGH HE KNEW YOU WERE COMING. And your friends coming and going as you are yourself. If the Strand in New York has eight miles of books, Stromness Books and Prints (and there are no prints) has about a hundred yards, but everything you need is there before you. All you need is courage.Alistair PeeblesA true haven! It actually encourages you to treat it as a library, with comfy sofas and a cosy coffee shop (with good coffee). The range of books is amazing. I am interested in poetry andunexpectedly found some of George Mackay Brown that I never knew existed. Staff actually encourage you to browse ... I spent hours there and it really lifted my mood!Gill RussellA bookshop with a working water wheel that generates electricity to illuminate the great range of books. Converted from an old meal mill, this amazing old stone built building has books and a coffee shop at the lower level, books and music on the main level, and books and art displays at the top. Situated in a small town in the middle of the Scottish highlands, the bookshop is a gem, both for the local population and visitors. The friendly staff and comfortable atmosphere make browsing, and buying, a pleasure.Chris TauberA beautifully converted watermill off the main street, this is a bookshop which encourages involvement. Children's reading groups, adult book clubs, and regular readings from an eclectic range of authors, all focused on the local community. Reasonable prices, with offers at least as good as the chains. The standard is always in stock, the obscure is ordered faster than any chain store I've come across. Its friendly (and child friendly - they have their ownroom), has a great Fairtrade coffee shop with a terrace overlooking the stream and knowledgable, friendly staff. With a modern print art gallery on the top floor, its a place you can spend a day.Tony Roome", "tags": ["Best bookshops", "Books", "Culture", "Booksellers"], "title": "Bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2008-12-10T19:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I will introduce a bill into the Scottish parliament for physician-assisted dying because Jeremy Purvis MSP can't. He started the ball rolling in the last parliament, but his bill didn't attract enough signatures to have it debated. Although he would have tried again, as the Lib Dem spokesman on the economy he's far too busy to follow up on the huge response from the public to a debate in Holyrood to which both of us contributed. I have issued a consultation document proposing that physician-assisted dying should be debated and decided on by the Scottish parliament. I was diagnosed as having Parkinson's about 13 years ago, but that's not why I'm seeking firstly, clarification of the law and then to have the concept of autonomy introduced to the issue of assisted dying. I'm an elected legislator, and this lies at the interface of private morality and public policy. In the course of my work as an MSP, and in making a film for the BBC, I've met people who, like me, would like to exercise control over the manner and timing of their death should their condition deteriorate until it becomes intolerable. Opponents of my proposal point to the need for the highest quality palliative care \u2013 all right if you can get it, but not a cast-iron guarantee of a trouble-free, dignified death. For a small number of people, palliative care just doesn't do it. Since it's simply specialised care, it's subject to the same cost-cutting and prioritising as other NHS services. But my first consideration is to persuade MSPs to allow my proposal to be properly scrutinised by the relevant parliamentary committees. The recent cases north and south of the border have highlighted the need to do so. Questions have arisen about the definition of \"assisting\" a suicide. Dan James' parents have not been prosecuted \"in the public interest\" but they stand accused of a criminal offence, and the next person to assist a loved one, or patient, to die at a time of his or her choosing may be charged. I fully respect people whose personal religious or moral code has God giving, and taking life. But there are moral and responsible people who wish to have the option of agreeing, with a qualified and registered physician, in advance of the point at which life might become intolerable, that they would be assisted, at their request, to end it.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Health", "Society", "Law", "UK news"], "title": "Margo MacDonald: I want assisted suicide to be debated in the Scottish parliament"},{"date": "2008-11-07T11:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Last weekend I was doing phone canvassing for Barack Obama in the key state of Virginia which the Democrats won.Yesterday I was phone canvassing for Gordon Brown in the Glenrothes byelection. The two results are impressive. Might they herald the return of serious adult politics? Having come into parliament in a mid-term by-election in 1994, I am sensitive to the unique Britishness of byelections as political barometers. I cannot recall one so close to a general election in which the ruling party actually increased the size of its vote from 19,395 in 2005 to 19,946 last night.By contrast, the Tory vote went down from 2,651 to 1,381. Were I David Cameron I would want to know why the supposedly rebranded Tories cannot even hold their vote. Instead, after three years of Cameron leadership it is cut in half. In my borough of Rotherham, birthplace of William Hague, the Tories were beaten by the BNP in half the council seats contested in the May 2008 local elections. North of Notting Hill the Tories get weaker and weaker. In the 1950s half of Scotland's MPs were Conservative. When I was elected Tory MPs were to be found everywhere in Yorkshire. Where do the 150 seats the Tories need to form govenment come from?No-one should read Glenrothes into broader UK politics but far from de-toxifying the Tories the \"new millionaires\" front bench promoted by Cameron seems less and less relevant to the nation's needs. The almost comic pronouncement that Cameron with his huge personal household wealth was thinking about making Tory shadow cabinet millionaires give up their lucrative City jobs and other outside earnings underlines the extent of Tory disconnect from the lives of most people.In the US, the most damaging attack on John McCain was the revelation he owned seven homes. As with David Cameron's \u00a321,000-a-week Aegean yacht holiday or \"Oligarch\" Osborne's meetings with Russian billionaires the Tories more and more give the impression of being the party of the rich, by the rich, for the rich.By contrast, Obama comes not from a poor background but one without wealth. Grinding academic work helped him to elite universities and then into politics. Obama comes from America's serious industrial Chicago \u2013 home to Studs Terkel, the chronicler of America's working and underclass who died just before the election.Chicago is also home to nobel laureates in economics, literature, science and medicine. After a succession of southern folksy Democratic presidents \u2013 Clinton, Carter, and LBJ \u2013 there is now a man from the windy north, from the city closest to Edinburgh in the USA. It is clear that we are quitting the age of GQ and Vanity Fair politics for a more austere, serious, sober era of politics. Gladstone rather than Disraeli; brains not bling; moral not meretricious; global not nationalistic. With luck we may be seeing the end of populism incarnated by the bombast of Alex Salmond, the ignorance of Sarah Palin or the style of Silvio Berlusconi summed up in today's Metro headline: \"The Italian Gob\" after he described Obama as \"tanned\". Not even William Hague's xenophobic populist cracks about Europeans can match Silvio's gob-like behaviour.Were I Nick Clegg I would worry that the Lib Dem vote fell from 4,728 in 2005 to a miserable 947 yesterday. This close to the seats of Lib Dem grandees like Sir Menzies Campbell. Clegg's repositioning the Lib Dems as the Tory Lite party instead of staying on the progressive side of politics in the manner of Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy may prove a major error of judgment.Too much to read into one by-election? Of course. Yet we are at the end of the second long cycle of postwar politics. The first was the welfare state capitalism that petered out in the 1970 as Labour under Jim Callaghan or the Democrats under Jimmy Carter mis-read where history was heading.The second era based on globalised deregulated capitalism is collapsing in the midst of the economic crisis and America's rejection of the Bush-Cheney-Greenspan axis of greed and nation-first foreign adventurism.No one is yet defining the new era though of the various political responses on offer Gordon Brown's economic leadership seems most in touch with the zeitgeist.The next election is now Labour's to lose. It is now up to Labour ministers, MPs and union leaders to make sure the seriousness of the hour is met with a seriousness of politics and discourse.", "tags": ["Glenrothes byelection", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Denis MacShane: A message from Scotland"},{"date": "2008-10-29T11:29:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Campbeltown is a bit off the beaten track but it contains my favourite bookshop - an oasis of interesting books. My own interest is in Scottish regional histories, and it has a great selection of Scottish books as well as an antiquarian section which turns up some amazing stuff. For everyone else there is a great history section, biography, literature and the rest. Again they have some fascinating out of print and antiquarian books as well, which they also sell online. The owners are friendly and it is the kind of place where politics, religion and philosophy can often be heard being debated among the shelves.Robert BurrellA real treasure of a bookshop. Stocking a comprehensive range of books and the usual accompaniments such as cards, maps and stationary. An extensive selection of titles by Scottish authors, combined with a comprehensive range of books on local history and attractions proves there is everything you need. From the moment you walk in, your enquiry is met with charm and expertise by the three knowledgeable ladies, or the owner, Fiona Roy. This is the embodiment of a great little bookshop: everything you expect and some pleasant surprises!Audrey WedderburnA treasure house of books on Islay's two main claims to fame - Islay Malt Whiskies (we have six - yes, six - working distilleries on our small island) and the legendary Lords of the Isles who ruled vast tracts of the west coast of Scotland during the 14th and 15th centuries from their council at Finlaggan on Islay. In addition, the ever-attentive proprietor Pat Roy has shelves of the latest fiction, a large range of books on general Scottish subjects and a complete section for children and young people. With major cutbacks in the local authority's library service, The Celtic House provides a literally unique book service to our island community.George RhindNot since a 1980s visit to Creative Camera's legendary Bookroom have I encountered a bookshop devoted to photography ... until now. Beyond Words, situated near Edinburgh's historic Royal Mile, is an Aladdin's cave for photography devotees. Here, in a shop staffed by friendly, knowledgeable people you will find countless volumes on the artistic, historical, pictorial and practical aspects of photography. The proprietor, Neil McIlwraith, also holds regular book launches and publisher displays, frequently in conjunction with the nearby Stills Gallery, the most recent being Arizona's Nazraeli Press. Finally, by becoming a \"close friend\" you receive regular newsletters and a discount on purchases.Alistair MaitlandEdinburgh does, in all fairness, have a good few independent and secondhand bookshops, but even among these Transreal Fiction tends to stand out. As may be guessed it specialises in fantasy and science fiction, and the selection of books it has in these two categories is impressive. It lacks the classical independent bookshop image of worn leather sofas and old furnishings, but this is more than made up for by the aforementioned plethora of titles decorating the shelves. For those not into Transreal's rather narrow, specialist field it also sports books on arts, mythology and similar. Well worth the visit.Sigve MoenWord Power - motto \"books to change our world\" - is Edinburgh's pre-eminent radical outlet. Via a tiny, packed, bookstore and a functional website they stock every conceivable alternative, critical and imaginative work. Word Power is run by warm people who believe wholeheartedly in a better world, and resistance though education. Rather than simply flog merchandise they constantly organise talks and events. And they are even located next to Susie's Diner, a great vegetarian caf?Word Power is an old, honest friend to every activist in Edinburgh.Stoned WolfA delight for anyone interested in science fiction and fantasy, although the stock is not restricted to these subjects (it covers a wide range, from children's books upward).The proprietors, Richard and Marion, are booklovers and will go out of their way to get books or advise on availability, publication dates etc. If your desired book is unavailable, they can usually find a number of other books to match your reading tastes As I now live in the Midlands I can't get to them and have to shop via their catalogue.Bill MilesLovely secondhand bookshop in Scotland's book town, specialising in social, environmental and women's interests. Part of the bookshop is set aside for a coffee shop serving homemade cakes. Spent a happy afternoon there on a sunny winter's day a couple of years ago, looking for out-of-print Martha Gellhorn and finding a rare copy of Hemingway's Women by Bernice Kert instead.Maria del Carmen CleggYou'll never find what you're looking for in this extremely cluttered hideaway in the West End, but who knows what else you'll uncover? With tottering piles of literature threatening to take over the shop, and a room devoted to books for under a pound, this is the impecunious browser's paradise. Don't forget to say hello to Trevor the friendly ginger cat, who you'll find asleep on the chair next to the foreign language dictionaries.Anna BullWith just one branch, this small but perfectly formed shop is run by enthusiastic, knowledgeable staff who have a knack of recommending just the right book, and are keen supporters of local writing groups, literary events and readings. With its wonderful range of contemporary fiction, children's, local interest and poetry, the shop has a warm, friendly atmosphere - plus great coffee - and is a much-loved hub of this small market town.Fiona DoakOne of the many cute surprises that await the visitor to Stromness - the capable baker, the quintessential butcher, the extraordinary Pier Arts Centre - is the huge and tiny Stromness Books and Prints. Here are no display tables, no specials, no e-money and no sofas, no drinks, no website, just books - one of everything or it can be obtained chop-chop - and the grizzled Tam McPhail, bookseller, wit. For the resident, this shop like the rest provides the necessities unfailingly - repartee, jokes, shelter in all weathers, and that-book-you-didn't-know-you-wanted-till-you-saw-it-on-the-counter AS THOUGH HE KNEW YOU WERE COMING. And your friends coming and going as you are yourself. If the Strand in New York has eight miles of books, Stromness Books and Prints (and there are no prints) has about a hundred yards, but everything you need is there before you. All you need is courage.Alistair PeeblesA true haven! It actually encourages you to treat it as a library, with comfy sofas and a cosy coffee shop (with good coffee). The range of books is amazing. I am interested in poetry andunexpectedly found some of George Mackay Brown that I never knew existed. Staff actually encourage you to browse ... I spent hours there and it really lifted my mood!Gill RussellA bookshop with a working water wheel that generates electricity to illuminate the great range of books. Converted from an old meal mill, this amazing old stone built building has books and a coffee shop at the lower level, books and music on the main level, and books and art displays at the top. Situated in a small town in the middle of the Scottish highlands, the bookshop is a gem, both for the local population and visitors. The friendly staff and comfortable atmosphere make browsing, and buying, a pleasure.Chris TauberA beautifully converted watermill off the main street, this is a bookshop which encourages involvement. Children's reading groups, adult book clubs, and regular readings from an eclectic range of authors, all focused on the local community. Reasonable prices, with offers at least as good as the chains. The standard is always in stock, the obscure is ordered faster than any chain store I've come across. Its friendly (and child friendly - they have their ownroom), has a great Fairtrade coffee shop with a terrace overlooking the stream and knowledgable, friendly staff. With a modern print art gallery on the top floor, its a place you can spend a day.Tony Roome", "tags": ["Best bookshops", "Books", "Culture", "Booksellers"], "title": "Bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2008-12-22T11:28:12Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Among the responsibilities of Scotland's devolved parliament are such matters as justice, transport and education. But it has also apparently got a new one \u2013 paying tribute to AC/DC.Christine Grahame, MSP for South of Scotland, has filed a new motion entitled AC/DC, We Salute You. And while electricians may be excited at the prospect of celebrating alternating and direct currents, it's not energised matter Grahame has on her mind \u2013 it's rock'n'roll.\"After 35 years AC/DC are still contributing to music and giving fans enjoyment worldwide,\" the Scottish Nationalist MSP told BBC News. \"I think they have long-deserved official recognition from their homeland ... and my parliamentary motion will go some way towards recognising that.\"The We Salute You motion is intended to formally welcome AC/DC to Scotland, recognise the band's Scottish roots, applaud their growing popularity, and thank them for the inspiration they've given to Scottish musicians.Angus and Malcolm Young, founding members of AC/DC, were born in Glasgow but later moved with their family to Australia, while former front man Bon Scott, who died in 1980, was born in Kirriemuir.\"It is clear Scott had a strong sense of his identity, from the 'Scotland forever' tattoo he had on his arm to his playing the bagpipes on the AC/DC track It's a Long Way to the Top,\" Grahame emphasised.AC/DC have sold more than 150 million albums worldwide since forming in 1973. They are to tour the UK next summer, in support of their new album, Black Ice. Grahame is particularly keen for the band to repeat a gesture from 1978, when they wore Scottish football strips at a Glasgow concert.\"It would be fitting if they were to do the same when the band play Hampden national football stadium next June,\" Grahame said.In return, perhaps Holyrood's MSPs could don AC/DC t-shirts.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "AC/DC", "Music", "Scotland"], "title": "AC/DC's Scottish roots celebrated"},{"date": "2008-12-10T19:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I will introduce a bill into the Scottish parliament for physician-assisted dying because Jeremy Purvis MSP can't. He started the ball rolling in the last parliament, but his bill didn't attract enough signatures to have it debated. Although he would have tried again, as the Lib Dem spokesman on the economy he's far too busy to follow up on the huge response from the public to a debate in Holyrood to which both of us contributed. I have issued a consultation document proposing that physician-assisted dying should be debated and decided on by the Scottish parliament. I was diagnosed as having Parkinson's about 13 years ago, but that's not why I'm seeking firstly, clarification of the law and then to have the concept of autonomy introduced to the issue of assisted dying. I'm an elected legislator, and this lies at the interface of private morality and public policy. In the course of my work as an MSP, and in making a film for the BBC, I've met people who, like me, would like to exercise control over the manner and timing of their death should their condition deteriorate until it becomes intolerable. Opponents of my proposal point to the need for the highest quality palliative care \u2013 all right if you can get it, but not a cast-iron guarantee of a trouble-free, dignified death. For a small number of people, palliative care just doesn't do it. Since it's simply specialised care, it's subject to the same cost-cutting and prioritising as other NHS services. But my first consideration is to persuade MSPs to allow my proposal to be properly scrutinised by the relevant parliamentary committees. The recent cases north and south of the border have highlighted the need to do so. Questions have arisen about the definition of \"assisting\" a suicide. Dan James' parents have not been prosecuted \"in the public interest\" but they stand accused of a criminal offence, and the next person to assist a loved one, or patient, to die at a time of his or her choosing may be charged. I fully respect people whose personal religious or moral code has God giving, and taking life. But there are moral and responsible people who wish to have the option of agreeing, with a qualified and registered physician, in advance of the point at which life might become intolerable, that they would be assisted, at their request, to end it.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Health", "Society", "Law", "UK news"], "title": "Margo MacDonald: I want assisted suicide to be debated in the Scottish parliament"},{"date": "2008-11-07T11:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Last weekend I was doing phone canvassing for Barack Obama in the key state of Virginia which the Democrats won.Yesterday I was phone canvassing for Gordon Brown in the Glenrothes byelection. The two results are impressive. Might they herald the return of serious adult politics? Having come into parliament in a mid-term by-election in 1994, I am sensitive to the unique Britishness of byelections as political barometers. I cannot recall one so close to a general election in which the ruling party actually increased the size of its vote from 19,395 in 2005 to 19,946 last night.By contrast, the Tory vote went down from 2,651 to 1,381. Were I David Cameron I would want to know why the supposedly rebranded Tories cannot even hold their vote. Instead, after three years of Cameron leadership it is cut in half. In my borough of Rotherham, birthplace of William Hague, the Tories were beaten by the BNP in half the council seats contested in the May 2008 local elections. North of Notting Hill the Tories get weaker and weaker. In the 1950s half of Scotland's MPs were Conservative. When I was elected Tory MPs were to be found everywhere in Yorkshire. Where do the 150 seats the Tories need to form govenment come from?No-one should read Glenrothes into broader UK politics but far from de-toxifying the Tories the \"new millionaires\" front bench promoted by Cameron seems less and less relevant to the nation's needs. The almost comic pronouncement that Cameron with his huge personal household wealth was thinking about making Tory shadow cabinet millionaires give up their lucrative City jobs and other outside earnings underlines the extent of Tory disconnect from the lives of most people.In the US, the most damaging attack on John McCain was the revelation he owned seven homes. As with David Cameron's \u00a321,000-a-week Aegean yacht holiday or \"Oligarch\" Osborne's meetings with Russian billionaires the Tories more and more give the impression of being the party of the rich, by the rich, for the rich.By contrast, Obama comes not from a poor background but one without wealth. Grinding academic work helped him to elite universities and then into politics. Obama comes from America's serious industrial Chicago \u2013 home to Studs Terkel, the chronicler of America's working and underclass who died just before the election.Chicago is also home to nobel laureates in economics, literature, science and medicine. After a succession of southern folksy Democratic presidents \u2013 Clinton, Carter, and LBJ \u2013 there is now a man from the windy north, from the city closest to Edinburgh in the USA. It is clear that we are quitting the age of GQ and Vanity Fair politics for a more austere, serious, sober era of politics. Gladstone rather than Disraeli; brains not bling; moral not meretricious; global not nationalistic. With luck we may be seeing the end of populism incarnated by the bombast of Alex Salmond, the ignorance of Sarah Palin or the style of Silvio Berlusconi summed up in today's Metro headline: \"The Italian Gob\" after he described Obama as \"tanned\". Not even William Hague's xenophobic populist cracks about Europeans can match Silvio's gob-like behaviour.Were I Nick Clegg I would worry that the Lib Dem vote fell from 4,728 in 2005 to a miserable 947 yesterday. This close to the seats of Lib Dem grandees like Sir Menzies Campbell. Clegg's repositioning the Lib Dems as the Tory Lite party instead of staying on the progressive side of politics in the manner of Paddy Ashdown and Charles Kennedy may prove a major error of judgment.Too much to read into one by-election? Of course. Yet we are at the end of the second long cycle of postwar politics. The first was the welfare state capitalism that petered out in the 1970 as Labour under Jim Callaghan or the Democrats under Jimmy Carter mis-read where history was heading.The second era based on globalised deregulated capitalism is collapsing in the midst of the economic crisis and America's rejection of the Bush-Cheney-Greenspan axis of greed and nation-first foreign adventurism.No one is yet defining the new era though of the various political responses on offer Gordon Brown's economic leadership seems most in touch with the zeitgeist.The next election is now Labour's to lose. It is now up to Labour ministers, MPs and union leaders to make sure the seriousness of the hour is met with a seriousness of politics and discourse.", "tags": ["Glenrothes byelection", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Denis MacShane: A message from Scotland"},{"date": "2008-10-29T11:29:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Campbeltown is a bit off the beaten track but it contains my favourite bookshop - an oasis of interesting books. My own interest is in Scottish regional histories, and it has a great selection of Scottish books as well as an antiquarian section which turns up some amazing stuff. For everyone else there is a great history section, biography, literature and the rest. Again they have some fascinating out of print and antiquarian books as well, which they also sell online. The owners are friendly and it is the kind of place where politics, religion and philosophy can often be heard being debated among the shelves.Robert BurrellA real treasure of a bookshop. Stocking a comprehensive range of books and the usual accompaniments such as cards, maps and stationary. An extensive selection of titles by Scottish authors, combined with a comprehensive range of books on local history and attractions proves there is everything you need. From the moment you walk in, your enquiry is met with charm and expertise by the three knowledgeable ladies, or the owner, Fiona Roy. This is the embodiment of a great little bookshop: everything you expect and some pleasant surprises!Audrey WedderburnA treasure house of books on Islay's two main claims to fame - Islay Malt Whiskies (we have six - yes, six - working distilleries on our small island) and the legendary Lords of the Isles who ruled vast tracts of the west coast of Scotland during the 14th and 15th centuries from their council at Finlaggan on Islay. In addition, the ever-attentive proprietor Pat Roy has shelves of the latest fiction, a large range of books on general Scottish subjects and a complete section for children and young people. With major cutbacks in the local authority's library service, The Celtic House provides a literally unique book service to our island community.George RhindNot since a 1980s visit to Creative Camera's legendary Bookroom have I encountered a bookshop devoted to photography ... until now. Beyond Words, situated near Edinburgh's historic Royal Mile, is an Aladdin's cave for photography devotees. Here, in a shop staffed by friendly, knowledgeable people you will find countless volumes on the artistic, historical, pictorial and practical aspects of photography. The proprietor, Neil McIlwraith, also holds regular book launches and publisher displays, frequently in conjunction with the nearby Stills Gallery, the most recent being Arizona's Nazraeli Press. Finally, by becoming a \"close friend\" you receive regular newsletters and a discount on purchases.Alistair MaitlandEdinburgh does, in all fairness, have a good few independent and secondhand bookshops, but even among these Transreal Fiction tends to stand out. As may be guessed it specialises in fantasy and science fiction, and the selection of books it has in these two categories is impressive. It lacks the classical independent bookshop image of worn leather sofas and old furnishings, but this is more than made up for by the aforementioned plethora of titles decorating the shelves. For those not into Transreal's rather narrow, specialist field it also sports books on arts, mythology and similar. Well worth the visit.Sigve MoenWord Power - motto \"books to change our world\" - is Edinburgh's pre-eminent radical outlet. Via a tiny, packed, bookstore and a functional website they stock every conceivable alternative, critical and imaginative work. Word Power is run by warm people who believe wholeheartedly in a better world, and resistance though education. Rather than simply flog merchandise they constantly organise talks and events. And they are even located next to Susie's Diner, a great vegetarian caf?Word Power is an old, honest friend to every activist in Edinburgh.Stoned WolfA delight for anyone interested in science fiction and fantasy, although the stock is not restricted to these subjects (it covers a wide range, from children's books upward).The proprietors, Richard and Marion, are booklovers and will go out of their way to get books or advise on availability, publication dates etc. If your desired book is unavailable, they can usually find a number of other books to match your reading tastes As I now live in the Midlands I can't get to them and have to shop via their catalogue.Bill MilesLovely secondhand bookshop in Scotland's book town, specialising in social, environmental and women's interests. Part of the bookshop is set aside for a coffee shop serving homemade cakes. Spent a happy afternoon there on a sunny winter's day a couple of years ago, looking for out-of-print Martha Gellhorn and finding a rare copy of Hemingway's Women by Bernice Kert instead.Maria del Carmen CleggYou'll never find what you're looking for in this extremely cluttered hideaway in the West End, but who knows what else you'll uncover? With tottering piles of literature threatening to take over the shop, and a room devoted to books for under a pound, this is the impecunious browser's paradise. Don't forget to say hello to Trevor the friendly ginger cat, who you'll find asleep on the chair next to the foreign language dictionaries.Anna BullWith just one branch, this small but perfectly formed shop is run by enthusiastic, knowledgeable staff who have a knack of recommending just the right book, and are keen supporters of local writing groups, literary events and readings. With its wonderful range of contemporary fiction, children's, local interest and poetry, the shop has a warm, friendly atmosphere - plus great coffee - and is a much-loved hub of this small market town.Fiona DoakOne of the many cute surprises that await the visitor to Stromness - the capable baker, the quintessential butcher, the extraordinary Pier Arts Centre - is the huge and tiny Stromness Books and Prints. Here are no display tables, no specials, no e-money and no sofas, no drinks, no website, just books - one of everything or it can be obtained chop-chop - and the grizzled Tam McPhail, bookseller, wit. For the resident, this shop like the rest provides the necessities unfailingly - repartee, jokes, shelter in all weathers, and that-book-you-didn't-know-you-wanted-till-you-saw-it-on-the-counter AS THOUGH HE KNEW YOU WERE COMING. And your friends coming and going as you are yourself. If the Strand in New York has eight miles of books, Stromness Books and Prints (and there are no prints) has about a hundred yards, but everything you need is there before you. All you need is courage.Alistair PeeblesA true haven! It actually encourages you to treat it as a library, with comfy sofas and a cosy coffee shop (with good coffee). The range of books is amazing. I am interested in poetry andunexpectedly found some of George Mackay Brown that I never knew existed. Staff actually encourage you to browse ... I spent hours there and it really lifted my mood!Gill RussellA bookshop with a working water wheel that generates electricity to illuminate the great range of books. Converted from an old meal mill, this amazing old stone built building has books and a coffee shop at the lower level, books and music on the main level, and books and art displays at the top. Situated in a small town in the middle of the Scottish highlands, the bookshop is a gem, both for the local population and visitors. The friendly staff and comfortable atmosphere make browsing, and buying, a pleasure.Chris TauberA beautifully converted watermill off the main street, this is a bookshop which encourages involvement. Children's reading groups, adult book clubs, and regular readings from an eclectic range of authors, all focused on the local community. Reasonable prices, with offers at least as good as the chains. The standard is always in stock, the obscure is ordered faster than any chain store I've come across. Its friendly (and child friendly - they have their ownroom), has a great Fairtrade coffee shop with a terrace overlooking the stream and knowledgable, friendly staff. With a modern print art gallery on the top floor, its a place you can spend a day.Tony Roome", "tags": ["Best bookshops", "Books", "Culture", "Booksellers"], "title": "Bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2008-12-22T11:28:12Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Among the responsibilities of Scotland's devolved parliament are such matters as justice, transport and education. But it has also apparently got a new one \u2013 paying tribute to AC/DC.Christine Grahame, MSP for South of Scotland, has filed a new motion entitled AC/DC, We Salute You. And while electricians may be excited at the prospect of celebrating alternating and direct currents, it's not energised matter Grahame has on her mind \u2013 it's rock'n'roll.\"After 35 years AC/DC are still contributing to music and giving fans enjoyment worldwide,\" the Scottish Nationalist MSP told BBC News. \"I think they have long-deserved official recognition from their homeland ... and my parliamentary motion will go some way towards recognising that.\"The We Salute You motion is intended to formally welcome AC/DC to Scotland, recognise the band's Scottish roots, applaud their growing popularity, and thank them for the inspiration they've given to Scottish musicians.Angus and Malcolm Young, founding members of AC/DC, were born in Glasgow but later moved with their family to Australia, while former front man Bon Scott, who died in 1980, was born in Kirriemuir.\"It is clear Scott had a strong sense of his identity, from the 'Scotland forever' tattoo he had on his arm to his playing the bagpipes on the AC/DC track It's a Long Way to the Top,\" Grahame emphasised.AC/DC have sold more than 150 million albums worldwide since forming in 1973. They are to tour the UK next summer, in support of their new album, Black Ice. Grahame is particularly keen for the band to repeat a gesture from 1978, when they wore Scottish football strips at a Glasgow concert.\"It would be fitting if they were to do the same when the band play Hampden national football stadium next June,\" Grahame said.In return, perhaps Holyrood's MSPs could don AC/DC t-shirts.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "AC/DC", "Music", "Scotland"], "title": "AC/DC's Scottish roots celebrated"},{"date": "2008-12-07T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "An Asian police chief who has been suspended for allegedly perverting the course of justice is to sue Scotland Yard for racial discrimination. Commander Ali Dizaei, head of Britain's black police association, claims senior Metropolitan Police officers orchestrated a 'smear campaign' against him.His decision comes weeks after his close friend, Tarique Ghaffur, formerly Britain's most senior Asian officer, accepted an out-of-court payout from the Yard of about \u00a3300,000 over race claims.As president of the National Black Police Association, which claims the Met is riddled with racism, Dizaei's decision will reignite the damaging race row within the Metropolitan Police that senior figures hoped had been settled with Ghaffur's payout. Dizaei's claim is based around the fact that white police officers accused of more serious disciplinary matters were not suspended pending an investigation. In September, Dizaei was suspended over three misconduct allegations, allegedly wasting police time, perverting the course of justice, assault and unlawful arrest. A file has been passed to the Crown Prosecution Service.Although Dizaei denies any wrongdoing and claims his suspension was racially motivated, sources at the Metropolitan Police Authority have said the allegations against the commander were so serious that officials were left with no alternative but suspension.", "tags": ["Police", "London", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Asian police chief to sue Scotland Yard"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:09:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Forget corridors of power: behind the black front door of Number Ten, Skye, it's the interiors that carry weight. Recently awarded Visit Scotland's highest five-star rating, Number Ten boasts self-catering accommodation as dramatic as Skye's landscape. In the bedroom, a black chandelier, stained-glass windows and a \"subtly perfumed\" whisky barrel bedhead set the tone; the living area features vast windows and a wood-burning stove. Owners Diane, a designer-artist, and Alan, a musician, supply wine, eggs, bacon, bread, butter and fruit on arrival, while the award-winning Three Chimneys restaurant is nearby. Spectacularly located at the end of a single-track road overlooking Loch Dunvegan, it's the perfect spot to indulge Crusoe tendencies - and for would-be drummers to practise (Alan offers tuition) without fear of annoying the neighbours. \u2022 Sleeps 2. From \u00a3900 per week, \u00a3450 for three days (includes welcome pack). 01470 511795, number10-skye.co.uk.", "tags": ["Self-catering", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Isle of Skye holidays"], "title": "Stylish seclusion at Number Ten, Isle of Skye"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:09:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Forget corridors of power: behind the black front door of Number Ten, Skye, it's the interiors that carry weight. Recently awarded Visit Scotland's highest five-star rating, Number Ten boasts self-catering accommodation as dramatic as Skye's landscape. In the bedroom, a black chandelier, stained-glass windows and a \"subtly perfumed\" whisky barrel bedhead set the tone; the living area features vast windows and a wood-burning stove. Owners Diane, a designer-artist, and Alan, a musician, supply wine, eggs, bacon, bread, butter and fruit on arrival, while the award-winning Three Chimneys restaurant is nearby. Spectacularly located at the end of a single-track road overlooking Loch Dunvegan, it's the perfect spot to indulge Crusoe tendencies - and for would-be drummers to practise (Alan offers tuition) without fear of annoying the neighbours. \u2022 Sleeps 2. From \u00a3900 per week, \u00a3450 for three days (includes welcome pack). 01470 511795, number10-skye.co.uk.", "tags": ["Self-catering", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Isle of Skye holidays"], "title": "Stylish seclusion at Number Ten, Isle of Skye"},{"date": "2009-03-05T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's plans to place a minimum price on a unit of alcohol should be welcomed (Report, 2 March). While some may complain about the \"nanny state\", alcohol misuse costs the NHS \u00a32.7bn a year, not to mention social disorder, crime and policing costs, and where the market fails to self-regulate there is a strong ethical justification for the state to intervene. Research commissioned by the World Health Organisation shows that increasing the price of alcohol is one of the most effective ways to cut consumption. The rest of the UK should follow Scotland's lead. Even a small reduction in our drinking, at the cost of an extra few pence for a beer or a whisky, will pay dividends in welfare and economic terms.Hugh WhittallDirector, Nuffield Council on Bioethics", "tags": ["Society", "Scotland", "Alcohol"], "title": "Letter: Cheers for Scotland"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:09:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Forget corridors of power: behind the black front door of Number Ten, Skye, it's the interiors that carry weight. Recently awarded Visit Scotland's highest five-star rating, Number Ten boasts self-catering accommodation as dramatic as Skye's landscape. In the bedroom, a black chandelier, stained-glass windows and a \"subtly perfumed\" whisky barrel bedhead set the tone; the living area features vast windows and a wood-burning stove. Owners Diane, a designer-artist, and Alan, a musician, supply wine, eggs, bacon, bread, butter and fruit on arrival, while the award-winning Three Chimneys restaurant is nearby. Spectacularly located at the end of a single-track road overlooking Loch Dunvegan, it's the perfect spot to indulge Crusoe tendencies - and for would-be drummers to practise (Alan offers tuition) without fear of annoying the neighbours. \u2022 Sleeps 2. From \u00a3900 per week, \u00a3450 for three days (includes welcome pack). 01470 511795, number10-skye.co.uk.", "tags": ["Self-catering", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Isle of Skye holidays"], "title": "Stylish seclusion at Number Ten, Isle of Skye"},{"date": "2009-03-05T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's plans to place a minimum price on a unit of alcohol should be welcomed (Report, 2 March). While some may complain about the \"nanny state\", alcohol misuse costs the NHS \u00a32.7bn a year, not to mention social disorder, crime and policing costs, and where the market fails to self-regulate there is a strong ethical justification for the state to intervene. Research commissioned by the World Health Organisation shows that increasing the price of alcohol is one of the most effective ways to cut consumption. The rest of the UK should follow Scotland's lead. Even a small reduction in our drinking, at the cost of an extra few pence for a beer or a whisky, will pay dividends in welfare and economic terms.Hugh WhittallDirector, Nuffield Council on Bioethics", "tags": ["Society", "Scotland", "Alcohol"], "title": "Letter: Cheers for Scotland"},{"date": "2009-02-03T16:00:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It has to be said that the Labour MP for Glasgow South, Ian Davidson, is no oil painting. But he knows what he likes and he doesn't think \u00a312.5m of Scottish taxpayer's money should be squandered on a picture of fat ladies with no clothes on. \"I mean, it's not as if it's by Jock McTitian\" he told BBC Radio Scotland last month of the masterpiece Diana and Actaeon, which has now been saved for the nation after the SNP government contributed \u00a312.5m of the \u00a350m purchase price from the Duke of Sutherland.\"Very few people have ever heard of Titian\" observed Davidson, \"Many will have thought he was an Italian football player.\" Art historians are divided on whether Titian ever did play for Italy, or Venice City, but they are reasonably confident that quite a lot of people have heard of one of the greatest figures in the history of art. Diana and Actaeon is also one of the most famous works ever painted \u2013 the \"Mona Lisa of the Mound\" as the Scotsman pithily put it. If Titian were a footballer, he'd surely be the Ronaldo of the Renaissance.The National Gallery in London contributed the same sum, and the rest was raised from foundations, individuals and the lottery fund. The galleries will take turns exhibiting the Titians for five-year periods, but there is a new row over London getting Diana for eight months of the year until 2012, largely to ensure it gets maximum exposure. As Diana has been on the Mound for most of the last 200 years, this seemed a reasonable concession. But it has given a new opportunity for philistine whingeing. But this is a result for Scotland. The SNP government got an absolute bargain here, and they know it. As part of the deal, the National Galleries of Scotland get to keep on extended loan the rest of the billion-pound Bridgewater collection, which includes three Raphaels, a Van Dyck, a Tintoretto and a Rembrandt. And that's a midfield lineup that even Davidson must have heard of. And all for a transfer fee which wouldn't buy you a serious international footballer. The tourist revenue alone will pay back the Scottish government's investment in a couple of years.There have been complaints north and south of the Border that \u00a350m is a lot to pay for a picture. But Diana and Actaeon is worth between \u00a3100m-\u00a3150m, had the Duke of Sutherland put it on the open market. In other words, the state has jointly acquired an asset worth a hundred million more than it paid for it. Where else can you get an investment like that these days? Labour presumably thought that trashing the Titians would be a good populist issue when money is tight in the credit crunch, but they have handed a rare political gift to the SNP. The Nationalists have long been sensitive to accusations of narrow-minded parochialism. The \"Scottish homecoming\" celebrating the 250th anniversary of the birth of Robert Burns has been widely criticised for confining Scotland's cultural horizons to Sean Connery and golf.The Diana purchase allows them to claim, rightly, to have vision wider than the shortbread tin. They have secured one of the finest products of European civilisation for a knockdown price, and have an option to buy the companion work, Diana and Callisto, for a similar sum. Last year the SNP government showed similar canny foresight by investing \u00a310m in the \u00a3120m d'Offay collection of modern art. Our football may be rubbish, but our art is increasingly world class.", "tags": ["Titian", "Art", "Scotland", "Culture", "UK news"], "title": "Iain Macwhirter: Scotland's Titian is a great result for culture - it beats football anyway"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:09:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Forget corridors of power: behind the black front door of Number Ten, Skye, it's the interiors that carry weight. Recently awarded Visit Scotland's highest five-star rating, Number Ten boasts self-catering accommodation as dramatic as Skye's landscape. In the bedroom, a black chandelier, stained-glass windows and a \"subtly perfumed\" whisky barrel bedhead set the tone; the living area features vast windows and a wood-burning stove. Owners Diane, a designer-artist, and Alan, a musician, supply wine, eggs, bacon, bread, butter and fruit on arrival, while the award-winning Three Chimneys restaurant is nearby. Spectacularly located at the end of a single-track road overlooking Loch Dunvegan, it's the perfect spot to indulge Crusoe tendencies - and for would-be drummers to practise (Alan offers tuition) without fear of annoying the neighbours. \u2022 Sleeps 2. From \u00a3900 per week, \u00a3450 for three days (includes welcome pack). 01470 511795, number10-skye.co.uk.", "tags": ["Self-catering", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Isle of Skye holidays"], "title": "Stylish seclusion at Number Ten, Isle of Skye"},{"date": "2009-03-05T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's plans to place a minimum price on a unit of alcohol should be welcomed (Report, 2 March). While some may complain about the \"nanny state\", alcohol misuse costs the NHS \u00a32.7bn a year, not to mention social disorder, crime and policing costs, and where the market fails to self-regulate there is a strong ethical justification for the state to intervene. Research commissioned by the World Health Organisation shows that increasing the price of alcohol is one of the most effective ways to cut consumption. The rest of the UK should follow Scotland's lead. Even a small reduction in our drinking, at the cost of an extra few pence for a beer or a whisky, will pay dividends in welfare and economic terms.Hugh WhittallDirector, Nuffield Council on Bioethics", "tags": ["Society", "Scotland", "Alcohol"], "title": "Letter: Cheers for Scotland"},{"date": "2009-02-03T16:00:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It has to be said that the Labour MP for Glasgow South, Ian Davidson, is no oil painting. But he knows what he likes and he doesn't think \u00a312.5m of Scottish taxpayer's money should be squandered on a picture of fat ladies with no clothes on. \"I mean, it's not as if it's by Jock McTitian\" he told BBC Radio Scotland last month of the masterpiece Diana and Actaeon, which has now been saved for the nation after the SNP government contributed \u00a312.5m of the \u00a350m purchase price from the Duke of Sutherland.\"Very few people have ever heard of Titian\" observed Davidson, \"Many will have thought he was an Italian football player.\" Art historians are divided on whether Titian ever did play for Italy, or Venice City, but they are reasonably confident that quite a lot of people have heard of one of the greatest figures in the history of art. Diana and Actaeon is also one of the most famous works ever painted \u2013 the \"Mona Lisa of the Mound\" as the Scotsman pithily put it. If Titian were a footballer, he'd surely be the Ronaldo of the Renaissance.The National Gallery in London contributed the same sum, and the rest was raised from foundations, individuals and the lottery fund. The galleries will take turns exhibiting the Titians for five-year periods, but there is a new row over London getting Diana for eight months of the year until 2012, largely to ensure it gets maximum exposure. As Diana has been on the Mound for most of the last 200 years, this seemed a reasonable concession. But it has given a new opportunity for philistine whingeing. But this is a result for Scotland. The SNP government got an absolute bargain here, and they know it. As part of the deal, the National Galleries of Scotland get to keep on extended loan the rest of the billion-pound Bridgewater collection, which includes three Raphaels, a Van Dyck, a Tintoretto and a Rembrandt. And that's a midfield lineup that even Davidson must have heard of. And all for a transfer fee which wouldn't buy you a serious international footballer. The tourist revenue alone will pay back the Scottish government's investment in a couple of years.There have been complaints north and south of the Border that \u00a350m is a lot to pay for a picture. But Diana and Actaeon is worth between \u00a3100m-\u00a3150m, had the Duke of Sutherland put it on the open market. In other words, the state has jointly acquired an asset worth a hundred million more than it paid for it. Where else can you get an investment like that these days? Labour presumably thought that trashing the Titians would be a good populist issue when money is tight in the credit crunch, but they have handed a rare political gift to the SNP. The Nationalists have long been sensitive to accusations of narrow-minded parochialism. The \"Scottish homecoming\" celebrating the 250th anniversary of the birth of Robert Burns has been widely criticised for confining Scotland's cultural horizons to Sean Connery and golf.The Diana purchase allows them to claim, rightly, to have vision wider than the shortbread tin. They have secured one of the finest products of European civilisation for a knockdown price, and have an option to buy the companion work, Diana and Callisto, for a similar sum. Last year the SNP government showed similar canny foresight by investing \u00a310m in the \u00a3120m d'Offay collection of modern art. Our football may be rubbish, but our art is increasingly world class.", "tags": ["Titian", "Art", "Scotland", "Culture", "UK news"], "title": "Iain Macwhirter: Scotland's Titian is a great result for culture - it beats football anyway"},{"date": "2009-01-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scots are, perhaps, not known for their cheery disposition. But it could be that social work is the exception that proves the rule.The Social Lives survey suggests that Scotland has the highest concentration of contented social workers in the UK - 86% (compared to 82% in England and 78% in Wales). They are also relatively pleased with the amount of money they earn, with 48% believing what they earn is in line with what they do, compared to 44% in England and 35% in Wales. Bang goes another stereotype.But all is certainly not rosy north of the border. Another finding - that 73% of Scots think they cannot give cases all the time they require, compared to 63% for England - chimes with other research. According to the most recent annual report from Scotland's Social Work Inspection Agency (Swia), morale is a challenge, although it says there have been \"genuine and well-considered efforts in some councils to address these issues\".Overall, however, the Swia report backs Society Guardian's findings, showing that social work in Scotland appears to be a changed beast from just a few years ago. In 2006, when Changing Lives, the report of the 21st century social work review, was published, it found \"services under great pressure, lacking in confidence and not delivering their full potential\". This was \"resulting in a growing mismatch between the values of social work and the experience of people who use and work in services\".Turning pointLife has improved since then, says Alan Baird, president of Scotland's Association of Directors of Social Work (ADSW) and director of social work and health at Dundee city council. \"I don't think change has been as dramatic structurally as it has been in England, but I think things have been getting better. I think frontline social workers in Scotland feel supported by management and government. Maybe it's part of our public service ethos. I think having the chief social worker [in each council] helps - departments work in different ways across Scotland, but I think that role is important.\"The ADSW has been working hard to reinvigorate local practitioner forums, which Baird believes are encouraging discussion and sharing among different sectors. He also believes that the focus and support provided by the relatively new Swia has been positive.Sarah Summers, a senior social worker in children and families at West Lothian council, who trained originally as a nurse in London, is happy in her job. \"I think Scotland and West Lothian are great places to be,\" she says. \"I originally came here for six months to 'cut my teeth' but I liked it so I stayed - it's supportive and proactive.\"West Lothian was quick to notice recruitment and retention problems in social work, so set up a strategic review some years ago. \"Our terms and conditions were improved and that made a difference,\" says Summers. \"We don't have a waiting list - whatever comes through the door is allocated - and all our statutory child protection work is carried out by social workers, which should be the case everywhere, but I know it isn't.\"Lucy Houston, a criminal justice social worker with the homeless persons team in Glasgow, is originally from Northern Ireland. She decided to train and work in Scotland. \"In England and Northern Ireland I think it's much more about monitoring, but here I think it's about support and care,\" she says. \"I'm sure we'd all like more time with clients and there are increasing paperwork requirements, but it's all important.\"Panel decisionLike Summers, Kay Smith, a children and families social worker with Falkirk council, retrained as a social worker as a mature student. Indeed, both came to the career after serving on the Children's Panel, Scotland's system for dealing with children who are vulnerable, in need of care, or who have offended. \"I thought this was something I could do to make a difference,\" Smith says. \"I think the Children's Panel system is good for child welfare and I think it helps make Scotland a good place to work. There's also good inter-agency working.\"I really enjoy the job; I like working through issues with a family and getting positive outcomes - and our office always has plenty of chocolate biscuits.\"Further reform is in the pipeline in Scotland, with the functions of the Swia set to merge with those of the Care Commission (which is the Scottish care regulator) and with the education inspectorate's responsibilities for child protection, to provide an overarching scrutiny body for care and social work. But the survey suggests Scots are relatively relaxed about change: only 50% of them are concerned by new frameworks, compared to 52% in England and 63% in Wales. More of an issue could be funding: local authority budgets continue to be under pressure and Baird thinks that offering more personalised care will be a challenge.Then there's the public profile issue, north of the border as south. Asked what would make life easier, Summers is clear. \"The media makes our job harder as I feel we are misrepresented,\" she says. \"People are reluctant to involve social workers because they think we're going to take their children away. Correcting these views takes up a lot of our time. I think we should be standing up for social work - we do a very good job.\"", "tags": ["Social care", "Public sector careers", "Society", "Scotland"], "title": "Jennifer Trueland on why Scotland's social workers are the cheeriest"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:09:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Forget corridors of power: behind the black front door of Number Ten, Skye, it's the interiors that carry weight. Recently awarded Visit Scotland's highest five-star rating, Number Ten boasts self-catering accommodation as dramatic as Skye's landscape. In the bedroom, a black chandelier, stained-glass windows and a \"subtly perfumed\" whisky barrel bedhead set the tone; the living area features vast windows and a wood-burning stove. Owners Diane, a designer-artist, and Alan, a musician, supply wine, eggs, bacon, bread, butter and fruit on arrival, while the award-winning Three Chimneys restaurant is nearby. Spectacularly located at the end of a single-track road overlooking Loch Dunvegan, it's the perfect spot to indulge Crusoe tendencies - and for would-be drummers to practise (Alan offers tuition) without fear of annoying the neighbours. \u2022 Sleeps 2. From \u00a3900 per week, \u00a3450 for three days (includes welcome pack). 01470 511795, number10-skye.co.uk.", "tags": ["Self-catering", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Isle of Skye holidays"], "title": "Stylish seclusion at Number Ten, Isle of Skye"},{"date": "2009-03-05T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's plans to place a minimum price on a unit of alcohol should be welcomed (Report, 2 March). While some may complain about the \"nanny state\", alcohol misuse costs the NHS \u00a32.7bn a year, not to mention social disorder, crime and policing costs, and where the market fails to self-regulate there is a strong ethical justification for the state to intervene. Research commissioned by the World Health Organisation shows that increasing the price of alcohol is one of the most effective ways to cut consumption. The rest of the UK should follow Scotland's lead. Even a small reduction in our drinking, at the cost of an extra few pence for a beer or a whisky, will pay dividends in welfare and economic terms.Hugh WhittallDirector, Nuffield Council on Bioethics", "tags": ["Society", "Scotland", "Alcohol"], "title": "Letter: Cheers for Scotland"},{"date": "2009-02-03T16:00:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It has to be said that the Labour MP for Glasgow South, Ian Davidson, is no oil painting. But he knows what he likes and he doesn't think \u00a312.5m of Scottish taxpayer's money should be squandered on a picture of fat ladies with no clothes on. \"I mean, it's not as if it's by Jock McTitian\" he told BBC Radio Scotland last month of the masterpiece Diana and Actaeon, which has now been saved for the nation after the SNP government contributed \u00a312.5m of the \u00a350m purchase price from the Duke of Sutherland.\"Very few people have ever heard of Titian\" observed Davidson, \"Many will have thought he was an Italian football player.\" Art historians are divided on whether Titian ever did play for Italy, or Venice City, but they are reasonably confident that quite a lot of people have heard of one of the greatest figures in the history of art. Diana and Actaeon is also one of the most famous works ever painted \u2013 the \"Mona Lisa of the Mound\" as the Scotsman pithily put it. If Titian were a footballer, he'd surely be the Ronaldo of the Renaissance.The National Gallery in London contributed the same sum, and the rest was raised from foundations, individuals and the lottery fund. The galleries will take turns exhibiting the Titians for five-year periods, but there is a new row over London getting Diana for eight months of the year until 2012, largely to ensure it gets maximum exposure. As Diana has been on the Mound for most of the last 200 years, this seemed a reasonable concession. But it has given a new opportunity for philistine whingeing. But this is a result for Scotland. The SNP government got an absolute bargain here, and they know it. As part of the deal, the National Galleries of Scotland get to keep on extended loan the rest of the billion-pound Bridgewater collection, which includes three Raphaels, a Van Dyck, a Tintoretto and a Rembrandt. And that's a midfield lineup that even Davidson must have heard of. And all for a transfer fee which wouldn't buy you a serious international footballer. The tourist revenue alone will pay back the Scottish government's investment in a couple of years.There have been complaints north and south of the Border that \u00a350m is a lot to pay for a picture. But Diana and Actaeon is worth between \u00a3100m-\u00a3150m, had the Duke of Sutherland put it on the open market. In other words, the state has jointly acquired an asset worth a hundred million more than it paid for it. Where else can you get an investment like that these days? Labour presumably thought that trashing the Titians would be a good populist issue when money is tight in the credit crunch, but they have handed a rare political gift to the SNP. The Nationalists have long been sensitive to accusations of narrow-minded parochialism. The \"Scottish homecoming\" celebrating the 250th anniversary of the birth of Robert Burns has been widely criticised for confining Scotland's cultural horizons to Sean Connery and golf.The Diana purchase allows them to claim, rightly, to have vision wider than the shortbread tin. They have secured one of the finest products of European civilisation for a knockdown price, and have an option to buy the companion work, Diana and Callisto, for a similar sum. Last year the SNP government showed similar canny foresight by investing \u00a310m in the \u00a3120m d'Offay collection of modern art. Our football may be rubbish, but our art is increasingly world class.", "tags": ["Titian", "Art", "Scotland", "Culture", "UK news"], "title": "Iain Macwhirter: Scotland's Titian is a great result for culture - it beats football anyway"},{"date": "2009-01-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scots are, perhaps, not known for their cheery disposition. But it could be that social work is the exception that proves the rule.The Social Lives survey suggests that Scotland has the highest concentration of contented social workers in the UK - 86% (compared to 82% in England and 78% in Wales). They are also relatively pleased with the amount of money they earn, with 48% believing what they earn is in line with what they do, compared to 44% in England and 35% in Wales. Bang goes another stereotype.But all is certainly not rosy north of the border. Another finding - that 73% of Scots think they cannot give cases all the time they require, compared to 63% for England - chimes with other research. According to the most recent annual report from Scotland's Social Work Inspection Agency (Swia), morale is a challenge, although it says there have been \"genuine and well-considered efforts in some councils to address these issues\".Overall, however, the Swia report backs Society Guardian's findings, showing that social work in Scotland appears to be a changed beast from just a few years ago. In 2006, when Changing Lives, the report of the 21st century social work review, was published, it found \"services under great pressure, lacking in confidence and not delivering their full potential\". This was \"resulting in a growing mismatch between the values of social work and the experience of people who use and work in services\".Turning pointLife has improved since then, says Alan Baird, president of Scotland's Association of Directors of Social Work (ADSW) and director of social work and health at Dundee city council. \"I don't think change has been as dramatic structurally as it has been in England, but I think things have been getting better. I think frontline social workers in Scotland feel supported by management and government. Maybe it's part of our public service ethos. I think having the chief social worker [in each council] helps - departments work in different ways across Scotland, but I think that role is important.\"The ADSW has been working hard to reinvigorate local practitioner forums, which Baird believes are encouraging discussion and sharing among different sectors. He also believes that the focus and support provided by the relatively new Swia has been positive.Sarah Summers, a senior social worker in children and families at West Lothian council, who trained originally as a nurse in London, is happy in her job. \"I think Scotland and West Lothian are great places to be,\" she says. \"I originally came here for six months to 'cut my teeth' but I liked it so I stayed - it's supportive and proactive.\"West Lothian was quick to notice recruitment and retention problems in social work, so set up a strategic review some years ago. \"Our terms and conditions were improved and that made a difference,\" says Summers. \"We don't have a waiting list - whatever comes through the door is allocated - and all our statutory child protection work is carried out by social workers, which should be the case everywhere, but I know it isn't.\"Lucy Houston, a criminal justice social worker with the homeless persons team in Glasgow, is originally from Northern Ireland. She decided to train and work in Scotland. \"In England and Northern Ireland I think it's much more about monitoring, but here I think it's about support and care,\" she says. \"I'm sure we'd all like more time with clients and there are increasing paperwork requirements, but it's all important.\"Panel decisionLike Summers, Kay Smith, a children and families social worker with Falkirk council, retrained as a social worker as a mature student. Indeed, both came to the career after serving on the Children's Panel, Scotland's system for dealing with children who are vulnerable, in need of care, or who have offended. \"I thought this was something I could do to make a difference,\" Smith says. \"I think the Children's Panel system is good for child welfare and I think it helps make Scotland a good place to work. There's also good inter-agency working.\"I really enjoy the job; I like working through issues with a family and getting positive outcomes - and our office always has plenty of chocolate biscuits.\"Further reform is in the pipeline in Scotland, with the functions of the Swia set to merge with those of the Care Commission (which is the Scottish care regulator) and with the education inspectorate's responsibilities for child protection, to provide an overarching scrutiny body for care and social work. But the survey suggests Scots are relatively relaxed about change: only 50% of them are concerned by new frameworks, compared to 52% in England and 63% in Wales. More of an issue could be funding: local authority budgets continue to be under pressure and Baird thinks that offering more personalised care will be a challenge.Then there's the public profile issue, north of the border as south. Asked what would make life easier, Summers is clear. \"The media makes our job harder as I feel we are misrepresented,\" she says. \"People are reluctant to involve social workers because they think we're going to take their children away. Correcting these views takes up a lot of our time. I think we should be standing up for social work - we do a very good job.\"", "tags": ["Social care", "Public sector careers", "Society", "Scotland"], "title": "Jennifer Trueland on why Scotland's social workers are the cheeriest"},{"date": "2009-03-24T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Five years ago Babar Ahmad told me he expected no prosecutions of police officers for his alleged beating in custody, and that justice would have to be pursued through the civil courts (Report, 19 March). His prediction has been proven correct. I spoke to him for the Wandsworth Borough News in 2004, in the window between his release from Charing Cross police station (no charges were brought against him after six days of incarceration) and his re-arrest following an extradition request by the US, which he continues to fight from custody. Broken glass was still strewn in his front yard from the dawn raid, and there was damage visible inside his home, including the prayer room.Ahmad's civil victory can be read not only as an indictment of the Met but also of the IPCC, which twice - in 2006 and 2007 - declared there was not sufficient evidence to bring charges against the police officers involved. This was an incredible decision. The IPCC must have been shown, as I was, photographs of the injuries Ahmad sustained all over his body. They must have seen the medical report from a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons which found \"unequivocal evidence that he was subjected to a harrowing physical and psychological assault by police officers\".Ahmad's case is not only instructive in exposing the lack of accountability provided by the IPCC, but will continue to be an important test case as he fights extradition under the treaty the UK has signed with the US, which not only allows it to demand that we surrender British citizens without prima facie evidence, but also provides no reciprocal rights for the British authorities.G McGregorLondonDespite the police admitting to carrying out a brutal assault on Babar Ahmad, numerous questions remain unanswered. What happened to the mail sacks of evidence relating to similar allegations against the officers involved? How did the officers' notebooks etc simply vanish? Why are none of the officers facing criminal charges or any disciplinary action? How could the IPCC conclude that Ahmad's complaints were unsubstantiated? There is a dire need for a full independent inquiry into this matter. On another note, it is arrogance of the most appalling kind that Scotland Yard can admit its men committed such a heinous, Islamophobic hate crime, yet refuse to apologise for it, suggesting there is no remorse for what happened.Fahad AnsariLondonIn your article, you mention some of the events at which the Territorial Support Group has been active (Police officers in abuse case accused of 60 other assaults, 21 March). However, you omitted the one at which they killed special-needs teacher Blair Peach. Although this was under a previous name (Special Patrol Group), the death was considered so significant at the time that the name of the unit had to be changed.Tom TrainerLondonI have some experience of making complaints against police officers (mostly involving the Ministry of Defence police agency, which works on US bases). So I am not the least bit surprised to hear from the Met that all but one complaint had been found to be unsubstantiated. All the officer, under caution, has to do is to say, \"no comment, no comment, no comment\" to questions usually asked by a police investigator. There is therefore nothing to investigate as there is only one side of the story told. Until there is a truly independent complaints process, with no vested interest involved, complaints will continue to be unsubstantiated. Lindis PercyCo-ordinator, Campaign for the Accountability of American BasesOn Friday I saw The Hounding of David Oluwale, a powerful play that details the brutal attacks on a Nigerian immigrant by two police officers in 1969, and the subsequent investigation when Oluwale's battered body was found in the river. The next day the Guardian described a \"serious, gratuitous and prolonged attack on a British Muslim man\". Forty years on and nothing has changed.Angela SherlockPlymouth, Devon", "tags": ["Police", "Politics", "UK news", "Babar Ahmad"], "title": "Letters: Shame, suffering and Scotland Yard"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Local people call it the Secret Beach and they won't tell you how to get there. It is, to me at least, Britain's most beautiful beach and what's more no one seems to know about it. I found it by accident as I wandered along the Sutherland cliffs from Durness, catching the last of the May sunshine before the promised rain set in for the day. I walked on springy green turf speckled with white daisies, stopping to check the cliffs for nesting puffins and to scan the sea with my binoculars. I hoped to spot the spouts of dolphins, or even a whale, or the bobbing head of a seal. A brisk wind chased clouds across the sun, turning the sea from turquoise to slate grey, and back to blue again. It was still early in the morning and clumps of thrift were haloed in pink by the low sun. I walked for perhaps a mile, keeping to the edge of the cliff. There was no path, but no obstructions save an occasional wire fence.Suddenly, there it was below me. The perfect beach. Cupped by the precipitous cliffs lay a semicircle of smooth sand decorated with chunks and towers of toffee-coloured rock like an exotic dessert. At first there seemed no way down, but then I noticed that at one point the craggy cliffs softened to a slope to allow a small stream to make its way to the sea. The long grass beside this rivulet was flattened in places by occasional feet, the secret access to this hidden cove. I slithered down. Sand the colour of Dulux Magnolia squeaked under my trainers. There were cowries and other shells along the high tide line, and a few bits of seaweed, but otherwise it stretched unblemished to the surf. Mine were the only footprints when I took my shoes off to paddle, and the only tracks around the towers and pinnacles of grooved and scalloped rock. The wind-whipped rain spattered my face as I walked back to the hotel, but I was grinning with delight at what I had discovered. My beach; the secret beach. But it's there for anyone who looks; just don't tell the locals.\u2022 To get to there head due east from Smoo Cave Hotel (www.smoocavehotel.co.uk) in eastern Durness until you reach the cliffs, then follow them south to the beach. It's less than a mile. Durness is Britain's most northwesterly village and the jumping off point for the wild expanses of Cape Wrath. For more information and accommodation options go to www.durness.org. There's a daily bus to Smoo Cave as well as Durness from Inverness", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hilary Bradt visits the perfect beach of Durness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:09:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Forget corridors of power: behind the black front door of Number Ten, Skye, it's the interiors that carry weight. Recently awarded Visit Scotland's highest five-star rating, Number Ten boasts self-catering accommodation as dramatic as Skye's landscape. In the bedroom, a black chandelier, stained-glass windows and a \"subtly perfumed\" whisky barrel bedhead set the tone; the living area features vast windows and a wood-burning stove. Owners Diane, a designer-artist, and Alan, a musician, supply wine, eggs, bacon, bread, butter and fruit on arrival, while the award-winning Three Chimneys restaurant is nearby. Spectacularly located at the end of a single-track road overlooking Loch Dunvegan, it's the perfect spot to indulge Crusoe tendencies - and for would-be drummers to practise (Alan offers tuition) without fear of annoying the neighbours. \u2022 Sleeps 2. From \u00a3900 per week, \u00a3450 for three days (includes welcome pack). 01470 511795, number10-skye.co.uk.", "tags": ["Self-catering", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Isle of Skye holidays"], "title": "Stylish seclusion at Number Ten, Isle of Skye"},{"date": "2009-03-05T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's plans to place a minimum price on a unit of alcohol should be welcomed (Report, 2 March). While some may complain about the \"nanny state\", alcohol misuse costs the NHS \u00a32.7bn a year, not to mention social disorder, crime and policing costs, and where the market fails to self-regulate there is a strong ethical justification for the state to intervene. Research commissioned by the World Health Organisation shows that increasing the price of alcohol is one of the most effective ways to cut consumption. The rest of the UK should follow Scotland's lead. Even a small reduction in our drinking, at the cost of an extra few pence for a beer or a whisky, will pay dividends in welfare and economic terms.Hugh WhittallDirector, Nuffield Council on Bioethics", "tags": ["Society", "Scotland", "Alcohol"], "title": "Letter: Cheers for Scotland"},{"date": "2009-02-03T16:00:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It has to be said that the Labour MP for Glasgow South, Ian Davidson, is no oil painting. But he knows what he likes and he doesn't think \u00a312.5m of Scottish taxpayer's money should be squandered on a picture of fat ladies with no clothes on. \"I mean, it's not as if it's by Jock McTitian\" he told BBC Radio Scotland last month of the masterpiece Diana and Actaeon, which has now been saved for the nation after the SNP government contributed \u00a312.5m of the \u00a350m purchase price from the Duke of Sutherland.\"Very few people have ever heard of Titian\" observed Davidson, \"Many will have thought he was an Italian football player.\" Art historians are divided on whether Titian ever did play for Italy, or Venice City, but they are reasonably confident that quite a lot of people have heard of one of the greatest figures in the history of art. Diana and Actaeon is also one of the most famous works ever painted \u2013 the \"Mona Lisa of the Mound\" as the Scotsman pithily put it. If Titian were a footballer, he'd surely be the Ronaldo of the Renaissance.The National Gallery in London contributed the same sum, and the rest was raised from foundations, individuals and the lottery fund. The galleries will take turns exhibiting the Titians for five-year periods, but there is a new row over London getting Diana for eight months of the year until 2012, largely to ensure it gets maximum exposure. As Diana has been on the Mound for most of the last 200 years, this seemed a reasonable concession. But it has given a new opportunity for philistine whingeing. But this is a result for Scotland. The SNP government got an absolute bargain here, and they know it. As part of the deal, the National Galleries of Scotland get to keep on extended loan the rest of the billion-pound Bridgewater collection, which includes three Raphaels, a Van Dyck, a Tintoretto and a Rembrandt. And that's a midfield lineup that even Davidson must have heard of. And all for a transfer fee which wouldn't buy you a serious international footballer. The tourist revenue alone will pay back the Scottish government's investment in a couple of years.There have been complaints north and south of the Border that \u00a350m is a lot to pay for a picture. But Diana and Actaeon is worth between \u00a3100m-\u00a3150m, had the Duke of Sutherland put it on the open market. In other words, the state has jointly acquired an asset worth a hundred million more than it paid for it. Where else can you get an investment like that these days? Labour presumably thought that trashing the Titians would be a good populist issue when money is tight in the credit crunch, but they have handed a rare political gift to the SNP. The Nationalists have long been sensitive to accusations of narrow-minded parochialism. The \"Scottish homecoming\" celebrating the 250th anniversary of the birth of Robert Burns has been widely criticised for confining Scotland's cultural horizons to Sean Connery and golf.The Diana purchase allows them to claim, rightly, to have vision wider than the shortbread tin. They have secured one of the finest products of European civilisation for a knockdown price, and have an option to buy the companion work, Diana and Callisto, for a similar sum. Last year the SNP government showed similar canny foresight by investing \u00a310m in the \u00a3120m d'Offay collection of modern art. Our football may be rubbish, but our art is increasingly world class.", "tags": ["Titian", "Art", "Scotland", "Culture", "UK news"], "title": "Iain Macwhirter: Scotland's Titian is a great result for culture - it beats football anyway"},{"date": "2009-01-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scots are, perhaps, not known for their cheery disposition. But it could be that social work is the exception that proves the rule.The Social Lives survey suggests that Scotland has the highest concentration of contented social workers in the UK - 86% (compared to 82% in England and 78% in Wales). They are also relatively pleased with the amount of money they earn, with 48% believing what they earn is in line with what they do, compared to 44% in England and 35% in Wales. Bang goes another stereotype.But all is certainly not rosy north of the border. Another finding - that 73% of Scots think they cannot give cases all the time they require, compared to 63% for England - chimes with other research. According to the most recent annual report from Scotland's Social Work Inspection Agency (Swia), morale is a challenge, although it says there have been \"genuine and well-considered efforts in some councils to address these issues\".Overall, however, the Swia report backs Society Guardian's findings, showing that social work in Scotland appears to be a changed beast from just a few years ago. In 2006, when Changing Lives, the report of the 21st century social work review, was published, it found \"services under great pressure, lacking in confidence and not delivering their full potential\". This was \"resulting in a growing mismatch between the values of social work and the experience of people who use and work in services\".Turning pointLife has improved since then, says Alan Baird, president of Scotland's Association of Directors of Social Work (ADSW) and director of social work and health at Dundee city council. \"I don't think change has been as dramatic structurally as it has been in England, but I think things have been getting better. I think frontline social workers in Scotland feel supported by management and government. Maybe it's part of our public service ethos. I think having the chief social worker [in each council] helps - departments work in different ways across Scotland, but I think that role is important.\"The ADSW has been working hard to reinvigorate local practitioner forums, which Baird believes are encouraging discussion and sharing among different sectors. He also believes that the focus and support provided by the relatively new Swia has been positive.Sarah Summers, a senior social worker in children and families at West Lothian council, who trained originally as a nurse in London, is happy in her job. \"I think Scotland and West Lothian are great places to be,\" she says. \"I originally came here for six months to 'cut my teeth' but I liked it so I stayed - it's supportive and proactive.\"West Lothian was quick to notice recruitment and retention problems in social work, so set up a strategic review some years ago. \"Our terms and conditions were improved and that made a difference,\" says Summers. \"We don't have a waiting list - whatever comes through the door is allocated - and all our statutory child protection work is carried out by social workers, which should be the case everywhere, but I know it isn't.\"Lucy Houston, a criminal justice social worker with the homeless persons team in Glasgow, is originally from Northern Ireland. She decided to train and work in Scotland. \"In England and Northern Ireland I think it's much more about monitoring, but here I think it's about support and care,\" she says. \"I'm sure we'd all like more time with clients and there are increasing paperwork requirements, but it's all important.\"Panel decisionLike Summers, Kay Smith, a children and families social worker with Falkirk council, retrained as a social worker as a mature student. Indeed, both came to the career after serving on the Children's Panel, Scotland's system for dealing with children who are vulnerable, in need of care, or who have offended. \"I thought this was something I could do to make a difference,\" Smith says. \"I think the Children's Panel system is good for child welfare and I think it helps make Scotland a good place to work. There's also good inter-agency working.\"I really enjoy the job; I like working through issues with a family and getting positive outcomes - and our office always has plenty of chocolate biscuits.\"Further reform is in the pipeline in Scotland, with the functions of the Swia set to merge with those of the Care Commission (which is the Scottish care regulator) and with the education inspectorate's responsibilities for child protection, to provide an overarching scrutiny body for care and social work. But the survey suggests Scots are relatively relaxed about change: only 50% of them are concerned by new frameworks, compared to 52% in England and 63% in Wales. More of an issue could be funding: local authority budgets continue to be under pressure and Baird thinks that offering more personalised care will be a challenge.Then there's the public profile issue, north of the border as south. Asked what would make life easier, Summers is clear. \"The media makes our job harder as I feel we are misrepresented,\" she says. \"People are reluctant to involve social workers because they think we're going to take their children away. Correcting these views takes up a lot of our time. I think we should be standing up for social work - we do a very good job.\"", "tags": ["Social care", "Public sector careers", "Society", "Scotland"], "title": "Jennifer Trueland on why Scotland's social workers are the cheeriest"},{"date": "2009-03-24T00:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Five years ago Babar Ahmad told me he expected no prosecutions of police officers for his alleged beating in custody, and that justice would have to be pursued through the civil courts (Report, 19 March). His prediction has been proven correct. I spoke to him for the Wandsworth Borough News in 2004, in the window between his release from Charing Cross police station (no charges were brought against him after six days of incarceration) and his re-arrest following an extradition request by the US, which he continues to fight from custody. Broken glass was still strewn in his front yard from the dawn raid, and there was damage visible inside his home, including the prayer room.Ahmad's civil victory can be read not only as an indictment of the Met but also of the IPCC, which twice - in 2006 and 2007 - declared there was not sufficient evidence to bring charges against the police officers involved. This was an incredible decision. The IPCC must have been shown, as I was, photographs of the injuries Ahmad sustained all over his body. They must have seen the medical report from a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons which found \"unequivocal evidence that he was subjected to a harrowing physical and psychological assault by police officers\".Ahmad's case is not only instructive in exposing the lack of accountability provided by the IPCC, but will continue to be an important test case as he fights extradition under the treaty the UK has signed with the US, which not only allows it to demand that we surrender British citizens without prima facie evidence, but also provides no reciprocal rights for the British authorities.G McGregorLondonDespite the police admitting to carrying out a brutal assault on Babar Ahmad, numerous questions remain unanswered. What happened to the mail sacks of evidence relating to similar allegations against the officers involved? How did the officers' notebooks etc simply vanish? Why are none of the officers facing criminal charges or any disciplinary action? How could the IPCC conclude that Ahmad's complaints were unsubstantiated? There is a dire need for a full independent inquiry into this matter. On another note, it is arrogance of the most appalling kind that Scotland Yard can admit its men committed such a heinous, Islamophobic hate crime, yet refuse to apologise for it, suggesting there is no remorse for what happened.Fahad AnsariLondonIn your article, you mention some of the events at which the Territorial Support Group has been active (Police officers in abuse case accused of 60 other assaults, 21 March). However, you omitted the one at which they killed special-needs teacher Blair Peach. Although this was under a previous name (Special Patrol Group), the death was considered so significant at the time that the name of the unit had to be changed.Tom TrainerLondonI have some experience of making complaints against police officers (mostly involving the Ministry of Defence police agency, which works on US bases). So I am not the least bit surprised to hear from the Met that all but one complaint had been found to be unsubstantiated. All the officer, under caution, has to do is to say, \"no comment, no comment, no comment\" to questions usually asked by a police investigator. There is therefore nothing to investigate as there is only one side of the story told. Until there is a truly independent complaints process, with no vested interest involved, complaints will continue to be unsubstantiated. Lindis PercyCo-ordinator, Campaign for the Accountability of American BasesOn Friday I saw The Hounding of David Oluwale, a powerful play that details the brutal attacks on a Nigerian immigrant by two police officers in 1969, and the subsequent investigation when Oluwale's battered body was found in the river. The next day the Guardian described a \"serious, gratuitous and prolonged attack on a British Muslim man\". Forty years on and nothing has changed.Angela SherlockPlymouth, Devon", "tags": ["Police", "Politics", "UK news", "Babar Ahmad"], "title": "Letters: Shame, suffering and Scotland Yard"},{"date": "2009-03-04T11:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Snow up to 25cm (9.8in) deep in places hit Scotland today as cold weather returned to Britain after a brief spell of spring-like conditions.Motorists have been warned of icy stretches on roads, and some routes are closed altogether. Snow settled in towns and cities such as Glasgow and Edinburgh just in time for the morning rush hour. Upland areas in northern England are likely to experience snow this morning, but this is expected to clear later in the day.Around 5cm of snow was recorded in Dalmally, Argyll and Bute, with an estimated 10-12cm thought to have fallen in higher areas.Traffic Scotland issued warnings on routes in Strathclyde, Grampian, the Highlands and Tayside.Northern Constabulary said the A82 was closed at Glencoe and the A9 was badly affected by slush.A high wind warning was issued for the Kessock Bridge.Overnight, a woman had to be rescued from her car after it crashed into a tree on the M8 near junction 26. She was taken to Glasgow's Southern General Hospital aftert the accident, at 4.15am.A driver escaped from his van when it crashed on the M74 at around 4.30am, Strathclyde Fire and Rescue said.Forecasters predicted the weather would remain cold and wet, with wintry showers and snow in the north today and milder weather returning only at the weekend.There was heavy overnight rain further south, with more expected in other parts of the country as wintry showers spread eastwards from Wales and the west of England.Tonight will see more rain, sleet and/or snow in Northern Ireland and western Scotland and the possibility of wintry showers in the south-west and along the south coast. The rest of the country will experience dry and frosty conditions.Matt Dobson, of Meteogroup, said: \"Tonight will be interesting \u2013 clear but bitterly cold. Temperatures will fall quite quickly.\"Today western areas will see rain and sleet but the snow will ease.\"With around 10-12cm having fallen in higher areas, the ski resorts will have had a bit of a boost.\"Tomorrow will see more wintry showers in the west, though the rest of the country will remain dry and bright.Into the weekend, showers and cloudy grey skies will give way to drier conditions.The cold winter has proved particularly trying for one bird species, ornithologists say. They believe numbers of the tiny Dartford warbler \u2013 which is smaller than a sparrow \u2013 may have been reduced by three-quarters in the past few weeks because of last month's snow.The bird nests in gorse shrubland in the south of England and has made a slow comeback after being nearly wiped out in the freezing winter of 1963, when numbers were apparently down to 11 pairs.It is still a rare sight. In 2006, after a decade of mild winters, its numbers had returned to 3,212 pairs, according to a count in Hampshire.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Transport", "Edinburgh", "Glasgow"], "title": "Heavy snow returns to Scotland"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-05-29T14:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The deal covers software and support for existing Oracle customers in Scotland's central government departments, local authorities, fire and police services.Procurement Scotland told GC News it will lead to significant savings for those organisations and provide greater flexibility around shared services and citizens access.The arrangement does not cover new customers. Scottish NHS organisations are excluded from the agreement as they had a prior agreement in place providing similar financial benefits. The education sector is offered much lower rates by the vendor as a matter of course.It was negotiated directly with Oracle for their proprietary software, which is currently deployed by the 80 public bodies included in the agreement.The deal, which was awarded in April, was announced in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 May 2009.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland establishes national Oracle deal"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-05-29T14:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The deal covers software and support for existing Oracle customers in Scotland's central government departments, local authorities, fire and police services.Procurement Scotland told GC News it will lead to significant savings for those organisations and provide greater flexibility around shared services and citizens access.The arrangement does not cover new customers. Scottish NHS organisations are excluded from the agreement as they had a prior agreement in place providing similar financial benefits. The education sector is offered much lower rates by the vendor as a matter of course.It was negotiated directly with Oracle for their proprietary software, which is currently deployed by the 80 public bodies included in the agreement.The deal, which was awarded in April, was announced in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 May 2009.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland establishes national Oracle deal"},{"date": "2009-05-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We've definitely found Badrallach, a crofting township on Scotland's north-west coast. A painted sign on a five-bar gate says Peatcutter's Croft, and there's roadside parking opposite. A sloping garden stretches away to sodden fields and the choppy waters of Little Loch Broom. Dodging raindrops and sidestepping sociable hens, we bash on the croft door. It's a big welcoming committee of small inhabitants. Those who can talk introduce themselves, but since I have no idea how to spell their names, I ask the eldest of three children at the doorway to write them in my notebook. He's 10, and his name sounds like Ocean, but it's Oisean. \"It means 'little deer,'\" he explains. Uma is eight, there is toddler Gaelan, and a sheepdog (jumping for joy at our arrival and continually escaping banishment to the hall) called Skye. The cats, Fang and Oscarito, peer at us through a window. Then Dad appears. Seori (pronounced \"Shoory\") grabs our bags and leads us down a narrow hallway. We're in the byre, added later to the 120-year-old croft and now housing up to four guests in an almost self-contained unit.Ooh, it's a G-plan cave, a cool blend of rough whitewashed stone and glass. Beside a Norwegian Jotul woodburner are baskets of peat and logs. A Vitra chair by Mario Bellini is covered by a sheepskin throw and sits invitingly beside shelves bearing Scottish titles. Above the double futon bed is a bed platform, the steps a series of giant holes cut into a thick wooden screen. My good deed is volunteering to sleep aloft (thus ensuring entertainment later, when the only way I can ascend without the \"steps\" cutting into my feet is by donning wedge heels).\"It's a galley bathroom,\" calls a disembodied voice from somewhere down the hall. \"And the towels are Fenn Wright Manson,\" says my friend Daniela, returning to our room. Back in the kitchen, we chat and play Corgi car crashes around mugs of tea and coconut macaroons - specially made for my gluten-free friend. Architect and musician Seori and his wife Pauline, a former editor, have returned to Scotland from south London and are committed to a more sustainable life here. Water comes from a burn, fruit and vegetables are homegrown and they cut their own peat. In summer there is mackerel from the loch, and \"brilliant mussel beds - we go about once a month,\" says Seori. \"Our Gloucester old spot pigs are all in the freezer now,\" says Pauline, back from work and now making dinner. \"What's the population of Badrallach?\" I ask between mouthfuls of soup (pea, mint and their own ham). \"There are 12 residents,\" explains Pauline \"and you're looking at five of them.\" Last winter some guests were snowed in for three nights, she tells us. Lucky them, we think, tackling quinoa tabbouleh (no wheat, clever) and a roasted vegetable dish called turlu turlu from the Moro Cookbook, then mini pavlovas with rhubarb fool. Warmed by an Aga and sitting amid all this human (and occasionally canine) life heightens our sense of the enveloping nothingness outside. At breakfast there is an ever changing view through a tiny kitchen window. Songbirds flutter at fronds of spring foliage, fat chickens suddenly hop into frame on the sill, replaced moments later by Fang and Oscarito. There is plenty of rain, but no snow, and the wilderness is waiting.Best for: Sociable types into walking.Cost: B&B, \u00a330pp, children half-price. Dinner, \u00a325 per head, BYO wine. Pick-ups from Garve railway station or Inverness. Picnics and day trips arranged - enquire about charges. For more information on Scotland: 0845 22 55 121, visitscotland.com/perfectday.sally.shalam@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Weekend breaks", "Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hotel review: Peatcutter's Croft, Ross-shire, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-05-29T14:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The deal covers software and support for existing Oracle customers in Scotland's central government departments, local authorities, fire and police services.Procurement Scotland told GC News it will lead to significant savings for those organisations and provide greater flexibility around shared services and citizens access.The arrangement does not cover new customers. Scottish NHS organisations are excluded from the agreement as they had a prior agreement in place providing similar financial benefits. The education sector is offered much lower rates by the vendor as a matter of course.It was negotiated directly with Oracle for their proprietary software, which is currently deployed by the 80 public bodies included in the agreement.The deal, which was awarded in April, was announced in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 May 2009.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland establishes national Oracle deal"},{"date": "2009-05-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We've definitely found Badrallach, a crofting township on Scotland's north-west coast. A painted sign on a five-bar gate says Peatcutter's Croft, and there's roadside parking opposite. A sloping garden stretches away to sodden fields and the choppy waters of Little Loch Broom. Dodging raindrops and sidestepping sociable hens, we bash on the croft door. It's a big welcoming committee of small inhabitants. Those who can talk introduce themselves, but since I have no idea how to spell their names, I ask the eldest of three children at the doorway to write them in my notebook. He's 10, and his name sounds like Ocean, but it's Oisean. \"It means 'little deer,'\" he explains. Uma is eight, there is toddler Gaelan, and a sheepdog (jumping for joy at our arrival and continually escaping banishment to the hall) called Skye. The cats, Fang and Oscarito, peer at us through a window. Then Dad appears. Seori (pronounced \"Shoory\") grabs our bags and leads us down a narrow hallway. We're in the byre, added later to the 120-year-old croft and now housing up to four guests in an almost self-contained unit.Ooh, it's a G-plan cave, a cool blend of rough whitewashed stone and glass. Beside a Norwegian Jotul woodburner are baskets of peat and logs. A Vitra chair by Mario Bellini is covered by a sheepskin throw and sits invitingly beside shelves bearing Scottish titles. Above the double futon bed is a bed platform, the steps a series of giant holes cut into a thick wooden screen. My good deed is volunteering to sleep aloft (thus ensuring entertainment later, when the only way I can ascend without the \"steps\" cutting into my feet is by donning wedge heels).\"It's a galley bathroom,\" calls a disembodied voice from somewhere down the hall. \"And the towels are Fenn Wright Manson,\" says my friend Daniela, returning to our room. Back in the kitchen, we chat and play Corgi car crashes around mugs of tea and coconut macaroons - specially made for my gluten-free friend. Architect and musician Seori and his wife Pauline, a former editor, have returned to Scotland from south London and are committed to a more sustainable life here. Water comes from a burn, fruit and vegetables are homegrown and they cut their own peat. In summer there is mackerel from the loch, and \"brilliant mussel beds - we go about once a month,\" says Seori. \"Our Gloucester old spot pigs are all in the freezer now,\" says Pauline, back from work and now making dinner. \"What's the population of Badrallach?\" I ask between mouthfuls of soup (pea, mint and their own ham). \"There are 12 residents,\" explains Pauline \"and you're looking at five of them.\" Last winter some guests were snowed in for three nights, she tells us. Lucky them, we think, tackling quinoa tabbouleh (no wheat, clever) and a roasted vegetable dish called turlu turlu from the Moro Cookbook, then mini pavlovas with rhubarb fool. Warmed by an Aga and sitting amid all this human (and occasionally canine) life heightens our sense of the enveloping nothingness outside. At breakfast there is an ever changing view through a tiny kitchen window. Songbirds flutter at fronds of spring foliage, fat chickens suddenly hop into frame on the sill, replaced moments later by Fang and Oscarito. There is plenty of rain, but no snow, and the wilderness is waiting.Best for: Sociable types into walking.Cost: B&B, \u00a330pp, children half-price. Dinner, \u00a325 per head, BYO wine. Pick-ups from Garve railway station or Inverness. Picnics and day trips arranged - enquire about charges. For more information on Scotland: 0845 22 55 121, visitscotland.com/perfectday.sally.shalam@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Weekend breaks", "Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hotel review: Peatcutter's Croft, Ross-shire, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it?If you're seeking solace, comfort and a retreat from the agues of life in these troubled times, Dumfries is as good a place as any. What possible hardship could come to anyone who lived in Dumfries? The place is as soothing as its name sounds - Dum-freeeece - as soft and gentle as a gambolling spring lamb wrapped in Andrex. The centre is nice enough, with its share of pretty areas clinging to the jaunty river Nith. But what draws the locals is the countryside. Don't come expecting drama. Dumfriesshire is as gentle as the town, though it has its share of wild moors and endless forest to the north. What's so attractive is its quietness, the sheer emptiness. Most of us tend to pass it by en route to glitzier places such as Glasgow, or the ferry at Stranraer, leaving the glories of the Solway coast and Merrick mountain for you to clamber over, letting the prettiness wash over you like a balm. The case againstA little undemanding. Rumour has it the new out-of-town Tesco is gradually draining the centre of life. Well connected? Twenty minutes' drive from the A74(M) and thence the M6 up to Glasgow (two hours) and down to the rest of the world. Trains: hourly to Carlisle (40 minutes) and the west coast mainline; also up Nithsdale to Kilmarnock and Ayr (90 minutes). SchoolsOf those with HMIE inspection reports, \"good\" or \"very good\" are St Michael's, Lochside, Cargenbridge, St Ninian's; Lincluden is mostly \"good\" or \"adequate\", as is Loreburn, which has \"very good\" pastoral care. Secondaries: Dumfries Academy \"good\" or \"very good\", Maxwelltown Academy and St Joseph's College mostly \"good\". Hang out at...The Swan at Kingholm Quay, The Lyver or Gracefield Arts Centre. Where to buySouth and west. Select suburbans off Glencaple and Kingholm Roads. Great period property south of the centre around Pleasance Avenue; lovely rosy Victorian semis and villas around Edinburgh Road and Lovers Walk, and off Lockerbie Road. Great stone terraces south of Brooms Road. The centre has its moments, too, especially around Castle Street. Market valuesFive-bed detacheds, modern and period, and farmhouses, \u00a3250,000-\u00a3380,000. Smaller detacheds, \u00a3150,000-\u00a3250,000. Semis and bungalows, \u00a3110,000 up to \u00a3250,000 for Victorian semis. Terraces, \u00a375,000-\u00a3175,000. Bargain of the weekListed Georgian end of terrace in the centre of town, needing modernisation, \u00a395,000, with Buccleuch John Sale (01573 224244). Live in Dumfries? Join the debate at theguardian.com/money/property Valentina Bold\"Dumfries has three major things going for it: community, countryside and culture. It's friendly, and set in some of Scotland's most beautiful landscapes. Try Rift Valley for jazz and Bruno's Italian restaurant, a Dumfries institution.\" Andy Doonan\"The town itself is not so picturesque, but it's a gateway to miles of beautiful coastline.\" Jack Lennox\"Visit Rabbie Burns' favourite pub, The Globe, and New Abbey, a picture-postcard village.\" Darren Connor\"Dumfries has one of the best small cinemas in the UK, housed in a converted mill.\"", "tags": ["Property", "Life and style", "Homes", "Money"], "title": "Let's move to ... Dumfries"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-05-29T14:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The deal covers software and support for existing Oracle customers in Scotland's central government departments, local authorities, fire and police services.Procurement Scotland told GC News it will lead to significant savings for those organisations and provide greater flexibility around shared services and citizens access.The arrangement does not cover new customers. Scottish NHS organisations are excluded from the agreement as they had a prior agreement in place providing similar financial benefits. The education sector is offered much lower rates by the vendor as a matter of course.It was negotiated directly with Oracle for their proprietary software, which is currently deployed by the 80 public bodies included in the agreement.The deal, which was awarded in April, was announced in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 May 2009.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland establishes national Oracle deal"},{"date": "2009-05-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We've definitely found Badrallach, a crofting township on Scotland's north-west coast. A painted sign on a five-bar gate says Peatcutter's Croft, and there's roadside parking opposite. A sloping garden stretches away to sodden fields and the choppy waters of Little Loch Broom. Dodging raindrops and sidestepping sociable hens, we bash on the croft door. It's a big welcoming committee of small inhabitants. Those who can talk introduce themselves, but since I have no idea how to spell their names, I ask the eldest of three children at the doorway to write them in my notebook. He's 10, and his name sounds like Ocean, but it's Oisean. \"It means 'little deer,'\" he explains. Uma is eight, there is toddler Gaelan, and a sheepdog (jumping for joy at our arrival and continually escaping banishment to the hall) called Skye. The cats, Fang and Oscarito, peer at us through a window. Then Dad appears. Seori (pronounced \"Shoory\") grabs our bags and leads us down a narrow hallway. We're in the byre, added later to the 120-year-old croft and now housing up to four guests in an almost self-contained unit.Ooh, it's a G-plan cave, a cool blend of rough whitewashed stone and glass. Beside a Norwegian Jotul woodburner are baskets of peat and logs. A Vitra chair by Mario Bellini is covered by a sheepskin throw and sits invitingly beside shelves bearing Scottish titles. Above the double futon bed is a bed platform, the steps a series of giant holes cut into a thick wooden screen. My good deed is volunteering to sleep aloft (thus ensuring entertainment later, when the only way I can ascend without the \"steps\" cutting into my feet is by donning wedge heels).\"It's a galley bathroom,\" calls a disembodied voice from somewhere down the hall. \"And the towels are Fenn Wright Manson,\" says my friend Daniela, returning to our room. Back in the kitchen, we chat and play Corgi car crashes around mugs of tea and coconut macaroons - specially made for my gluten-free friend. Architect and musician Seori and his wife Pauline, a former editor, have returned to Scotland from south London and are committed to a more sustainable life here. Water comes from a burn, fruit and vegetables are homegrown and they cut their own peat. In summer there is mackerel from the loch, and \"brilliant mussel beds - we go about once a month,\" says Seori. \"Our Gloucester old spot pigs are all in the freezer now,\" says Pauline, back from work and now making dinner. \"What's the population of Badrallach?\" I ask between mouthfuls of soup (pea, mint and their own ham). \"There are 12 residents,\" explains Pauline \"and you're looking at five of them.\" Last winter some guests were snowed in for three nights, she tells us. Lucky them, we think, tackling quinoa tabbouleh (no wheat, clever) and a roasted vegetable dish called turlu turlu from the Moro Cookbook, then mini pavlovas with rhubarb fool. Warmed by an Aga and sitting amid all this human (and occasionally canine) life heightens our sense of the enveloping nothingness outside. At breakfast there is an ever changing view through a tiny kitchen window. Songbirds flutter at fronds of spring foliage, fat chickens suddenly hop into frame on the sill, replaced moments later by Fang and Oscarito. There is plenty of rain, but no snow, and the wilderness is waiting.Best for: Sociable types into walking.Cost: B&B, \u00a330pp, children half-price. Dinner, \u00a325 per head, BYO wine. Pick-ups from Garve railway station or Inverness. Picnics and day trips arranged - enquire about charges. For more information on Scotland: 0845 22 55 121, visitscotland.com/perfectday.sally.shalam@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Weekend breaks", "Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hotel review: Peatcutter's Croft, Ross-shire, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it?If you're seeking solace, comfort and a retreat from the agues of life in these troubled times, Dumfries is as good a place as any. What possible hardship could come to anyone who lived in Dumfries? The place is as soothing as its name sounds - Dum-freeeece - as soft and gentle as a gambolling spring lamb wrapped in Andrex. The centre is nice enough, with its share of pretty areas clinging to the jaunty river Nith. But what draws the locals is the countryside. Don't come expecting drama. Dumfriesshire is as gentle as the town, though it has its share of wild moors and endless forest to the north. What's so attractive is its quietness, the sheer emptiness. Most of us tend to pass it by en route to glitzier places such as Glasgow, or the ferry at Stranraer, leaving the glories of the Solway coast and Merrick mountain for you to clamber over, letting the prettiness wash over you like a balm. The case againstA little undemanding. Rumour has it the new out-of-town Tesco is gradually draining the centre of life. Well connected? Twenty minutes' drive from the A74(M) and thence the M6 up to Glasgow (two hours) and down to the rest of the world. Trains: hourly to Carlisle (40 minutes) and the west coast mainline; also up Nithsdale to Kilmarnock and Ayr (90 minutes). SchoolsOf those with HMIE inspection reports, \"good\" or \"very good\" are St Michael's, Lochside, Cargenbridge, St Ninian's; Lincluden is mostly \"good\" or \"adequate\", as is Loreburn, which has \"very good\" pastoral care. Secondaries: Dumfries Academy \"good\" or \"very good\", Maxwelltown Academy and St Joseph's College mostly \"good\". Hang out at...The Swan at Kingholm Quay, The Lyver or Gracefield Arts Centre. Where to buySouth and west. Select suburbans off Glencaple and Kingholm Roads. Great period property south of the centre around Pleasance Avenue; lovely rosy Victorian semis and villas around Edinburgh Road and Lovers Walk, and off Lockerbie Road. Great stone terraces south of Brooms Road. The centre has its moments, too, especially around Castle Street. Market valuesFive-bed detacheds, modern and period, and farmhouses, \u00a3250,000-\u00a3380,000. Smaller detacheds, \u00a3150,000-\u00a3250,000. Semis and bungalows, \u00a3110,000 up to \u00a3250,000 for Victorian semis. Terraces, \u00a375,000-\u00a3175,000. Bargain of the weekListed Georgian end of terrace in the centre of town, needing modernisation, \u00a395,000, with Buccleuch John Sale (01573 224244). Live in Dumfries? Join the debate at theguardian.com/money/property Valentina Bold\"Dumfries has three major things going for it: community, countryside and culture. It's friendly, and set in some of Scotland's most beautiful landscapes. Try Rift Valley for jazz and Bruno's Italian restaurant, a Dumfries institution.\" Andy Doonan\"The town itself is not so picturesque, but it's a gateway to miles of beautiful coastline.\" Jack Lennox\"Visit Rabbie Burns' favourite pub, The Globe, and New Abbey, a picture-postcard village.\" Darren Connor\"Dumfries has one of the best small cinemas in the UK, housed in a converted mill.\"", "tags": ["Property", "Life and style", "Homes", "Money"], "title": "Let's move to ... Dumfries"},{"date": "2009-04-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A major new road safety campaign is to be launched tomorrow to warn drivers of the deadly dangers of deer on Scotland's roads.An average of three people a year are killed and numerous others seriously injured in around 10,000 accidents involving deer as they roam across rural and suburban roads in search of fresh pastures.Collisions involving deer usually peak between now and the middle of next month, prompting Transport Scotland and the Deer Commission for Scotland (DCS) to run a high-visibility awareness campaign for drivers across the country, but particularly throughout the central belt, north-east of Glasgow, Aberdeenshire, Morayshire and around the Dundee area.\"Juvenile roe deer are a higher risk on the roads at this time of year, as their mothers are about to give birth, leaving one-year-olds to find their own way for the first time. This leaves the younger roe in search of territories of their own and can often lead to them wandering across roads,\" said Jamie Hammond, of the DCS.\"We often find that people who live in and around towns think that these warnings aren't really that relevant to them, but in fact accident rates are often higher in areas with more people and more cars on the road. Accidents certainly don't only occur on the most rural roads in the Highlands.\"Millions of pounds of damage and personal injury claims are caused by collisions with deer every year.According to the Deer Collision Database, it's not just Scotland where there is a danger to motorists, as accidents have been recorded across Britain.Accidents involving deer are not reportable and the police don't get involved unless there are injuries to people, which means the actual number of collisions each year could be as high as 50,000 across the UK.Many of the deer hit by cars are not killed outright, and instead have to be put down at the roadside, while others escape to die later of their injuries.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Animals", "UK news", "World news", "Road safety"], "title": "Deer threaten drivers in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-05-29T14:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The deal covers software and support for existing Oracle customers in Scotland's central government departments, local authorities, fire and police services.Procurement Scotland told GC News it will lead to significant savings for those organisations and provide greater flexibility around shared services and citizens access.The arrangement does not cover new customers. Scottish NHS organisations are excluded from the agreement as they had a prior agreement in place providing similar financial benefits. The education sector is offered much lower rates by the vendor as a matter of course.It was negotiated directly with Oracle for their proprietary software, which is currently deployed by the 80 public bodies included in the agreement.The deal, which was awarded in April, was announced in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 May 2009.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland establishes national Oracle deal"},{"date": "2009-05-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We've definitely found Badrallach, a crofting township on Scotland's north-west coast. A painted sign on a five-bar gate says Peatcutter's Croft, and there's roadside parking opposite. A sloping garden stretches away to sodden fields and the choppy waters of Little Loch Broom. Dodging raindrops and sidestepping sociable hens, we bash on the croft door. It's a big welcoming committee of small inhabitants. Those who can talk introduce themselves, but since I have no idea how to spell their names, I ask the eldest of three children at the doorway to write them in my notebook. He's 10, and his name sounds like Ocean, but it's Oisean. \"It means 'little deer,'\" he explains. Uma is eight, there is toddler Gaelan, and a sheepdog (jumping for joy at our arrival and continually escaping banishment to the hall) called Skye. The cats, Fang and Oscarito, peer at us through a window. Then Dad appears. Seori (pronounced \"Shoory\") grabs our bags and leads us down a narrow hallway. We're in the byre, added later to the 120-year-old croft and now housing up to four guests in an almost self-contained unit.Ooh, it's a G-plan cave, a cool blend of rough whitewashed stone and glass. Beside a Norwegian Jotul woodburner are baskets of peat and logs. A Vitra chair by Mario Bellini is covered by a sheepskin throw and sits invitingly beside shelves bearing Scottish titles. Above the double futon bed is a bed platform, the steps a series of giant holes cut into a thick wooden screen. My good deed is volunteering to sleep aloft (thus ensuring entertainment later, when the only way I can ascend without the \"steps\" cutting into my feet is by donning wedge heels).\"It's a galley bathroom,\" calls a disembodied voice from somewhere down the hall. \"And the towels are Fenn Wright Manson,\" says my friend Daniela, returning to our room. Back in the kitchen, we chat and play Corgi car crashes around mugs of tea and coconut macaroons - specially made for my gluten-free friend. Architect and musician Seori and his wife Pauline, a former editor, have returned to Scotland from south London and are committed to a more sustainable life here. Water comes from a burn, fruit and vegetables are homegrown and they cut their own peat. In summer there is mackerel from the loch, and \"brilliant mussel beds - we go about once a month,\" says Seori. \"Our Gloucester old spot pigs are all in the freezer now,\" says Pauline, back from work and now making dinner. \"What's the population of Badrallach?\" I ask between mouthfuls of soup (pea, mint and their own ham). \"There are 12 residents,\" explains Pauline \"and you're looking at five of them.\" Last winter some guests were snowed in for three nights, she tells us. Lucky them, we think, tackling quinoa tabbouleh (no wheat, clever) and a roasted vegetable dish called turlu turlu from the Moro Cookbook, then mini pavlovas with rhubarb fool. Warmed by an Aga and sitting amid all this human (and occasionally canine) life heightens our sense of the enveloping nothingness outside. At breakfast there is an ever changing view through a tiny kitchen window. Songbirds flutter at fronds of spring foliage, fat chickens suddenly hop into frame on the sill, replaced moments later by Fang and Oscarito. There is plenty of rain, but no snow, and the wilderness is waiting.Best for: Sociable types into walking.Cost: B&B, \u00a330pp, children half-price. Dinner, \u00a325 per head, BYO wine. Pick-ups from Garve railway station or Inverness. Picnics and day trips arranged - enquire about charges. For more information on Scotland: 0845 22 55 121, visitscotland.com/perfectday.sally.shalam@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Weekend breaks", "Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hotel review: Peatcutter's Croft, Ross-shire, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it?If you're seeking solace, comfort and a retreat from the agues of life in these troubled times, Dumfries is as good a place as any. What possible hardship could come to anyone who lived in Dumfries? The place is as soothing as its name sounds - Dum-freeeece - as soft and gentle as a gambolling spring lamb wrapped in Andrex. The centre is nice enough, with its share of pretty areas clinging to the jaunty river Nith. But what draws the locals is the countryside. Don't come expecting drama. Dumfriesshire is as gentle as the town, though it has its share of wild moors and endless forest to the north. What's so attractive is its quietness, the sheer emptiness. Most of us tend to pass it by en route to glitzier places such as Glasgow, or the ferry at Stranraer, leaving the glories of the Solway coast and Merrick mountain for you to clamber over, letting the prettiness wash over you like a balm. The case againstA little undemanding. Rumour has it the new out-of-town Tesco is gradually draining the centre of life. Well connected? Twenty minutes' drive from the A74(M) and thence the M6 up to Glasgow (two hours) and down to the rest of the world. Trains: hourly to Carlisle (40 minutes) and the west coast mainline; also up Nithsdale to Kilmarnock and Ayr (90 minutes). SchoolsOf those with HMIE inspection reports, \"good\" or \"very good\" are St Michael's, Lochside, Cargenbridge, St Ninian's; Lincluden is mostly \"good\" or \"adequate\", as is Loreburn, which has \"very good\" pastoral care. Secondaries: Dumfries Academy \"good\" or \"very good\", Maxwelltown Academy and St Joseph's College mostly \"good\". Hang out at...The Swan at Kingholm Quay, The Lyver or Gracefield Arts Centre. Where to buySouth and west. Select suburbans off Glencaple and Kingholm Roads. Great period property south of the centre around Pleasance Avenue; lovely rosy Victorian semis and villas around Edinburgh Road and Lovers Walk, and off Lockerbie Road. Great stone terraces south of Brooms Road. The centre has its moments, too, especially around Castle Street. Market valuesFive-bed detacheds, modern and period, and farmhouses, \u00a3250,000-\u00a3380,000. Smaller detacheds, \u00a3150,000-\u00a3250,000. Semis and bungalows, \u00a3110,000 up to \u00a3250,000 for Victorian semis. Terraces, \u00a375,000-\u00a3175,000. Bargain of the weekListed Georgian end of terrace in the centre of town, needing modernisation, \u00a395,000, with Buccleuch John Sale (01573 224244). Live in Dumfries? Join the debate at theguardian.com/money/property Valentina Bold\"Dumfries has three major things going for it: community, countryside and culture. It's friendly, and set in some of Scotland's most beautiful landscapes. Try Rift Valley for jazz and Bruno's Italian restaurant, a Dumfries institution.\" Andy Doonan\"The town itself is not so picturesque, but it's a gateway to miles of beautiful coastline.\" Jack Lennox\"Visit Rabbie Burns' favourite pub, The Globe, and New Abbey, a picture-postcard village.\" Darren Connor\"Dumfries has one of the best small cinemas in the UK, housed in a converted mill.\"", "tags": ["Property", "Life and style", "Homes", "Money"], "title": "Let's move to ... Dumfries"},{"date": "2009-04-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A major new road safety campaign is to be launched tomorrow to warn drivers of the deadly dangers of deer on Scotland's roads.An average of three people a year are killed and numerous others seriously injured in around 10,000 accidents involving deer as they roam across rural and suburban roads in search of fresh pastures.Collisions involving deer usually peak between now and the middle of next month, prompting Transport Scotland and the Deer Commission for Scotland (DCS) to run a high-visibility awareness campaign for drivers across the country, but particularly throughout the central belt, north-east of Glasgow, Aberdeenshire, Morayshire and around the Dundee area.\"Juvenile roe deer are a higher risk on the roads at this time of year, as their mothers are about to give birth, leaving one-year-olds to find their own way for the first time. This leaves the younger roe in search of territories of their own and can often lead to them wandering across roads,\" said Jamie Hammond, of the DCS.\"We often find that people who live in and around towns think that these warnings aren't really that relevant to them, but in fact accident rates are often higher in areas with more people and more cars on the road. Accidents certainly don't only occur on the most rural roads in the Highlands.\"Millions of pounds of damage and personal injury claims are caused by collisions with deer every year.According to the Deer Collision Database, it's not just Scotland where there is a danger to motorists, as accidents have been recorded across Britain.Accidents involving deer are not reportable and the police don't get involved unless there are injuries to people, which means the actual number of collisions each year could be as high as 50,000 across the UK.Many of the deer hit by cars are not killed outright, and instead have to be put down at the roadside, while others escape to die later of their injuries.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Animals", "UK news", "World news", "Road safety"], "title": "Deer threaten drivers in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-04-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it? There's a different light up here. Cooler, icier. When you get to Inverness' big country, Britain seems to have more in common with Iceland and Lapland than Exeter or Llandudno. The northern lights are as common as muck. There's a landscape of epic magnificence 15 minutes away - the Highlands one way, the Cairngorms the other. Admittedly shifting up (or down) here is one to file under \"major life change\", but faint heart, eh? The place has had a booming few years, usually scores high in quality of life surveys and, dammit, there are dolphins in the Moray Firth. I'm off.The case against Remoteness. It's a few hours' drive to anywhere else the same size. A fair heft of gloomy weather and dark, dark winters (but light, light summers). Many delivery firms don't count Inverness as \"UK mainland\" and slap on extra charges.Well connected? The airport, just outside town, flies to Birmingham, Gatwick, Manchester, Belfast, Southampton, Luton, Bristol, Edinburgh and more Highlands and islands. Rail to Edinburgh (210 mins, every two or three hours), north to Wick (four hours) and west to Kyle of Lochalsh (135 mins). Two direct trains a day to London (eight hours); trains every hour or two to Aberdeen (135 mins).Schools Primaries: Lochardil, Holm, Hilton, Crown, Central and Muirtown have a \"broad and balanced\", \"good\" curriculum, says HMIE; Merkinch has a \"good ethos\". Secondaries: Charleston Academy has a \"good ethos\", while Higher results in Inverness Royal and Millburn are \"well above national average\".Hang out at... Hootananny on a Friday night. Or a Tuesday. Or a wet Saturday afternoon. Where to buy South and east's traditionally posh, with villas lining the river on both sides, and leafy streets of stone Victorian semis. Some lovely stone terraces skirting south of the city centre, and west of Kenneth Street on the west side. Decent modern suburbs. Lots of new-build, too. Check out the commuter belt lining the Moray Firth, with its extraordinary views. My money's on the Black Isle's pretty towns, like Cromarty and Fortrose. Market values Five- or six-bed Victorian villas, \u00a3450,000-\u00a3550,000. Modern detacheds, \u00a3200,000-\u00a3450,000; semis and bungalows, \u00a3170,000-\u00a3250,000. Terraces, \u00a3130,000-\u00a3300,000. Flats, \u00a380,000-\u00a3260,000.Bargain of the week Nice, Victorian three-bed terrace, needs upgrading; \u00a3120,000, with Your Move (01463 221166). \u2022 Live in Inverness? Join the debate at theguardian.com/money/propertyCaroline Warburton \"You have easy access to mountains and beaches; summer evenings stay light until well after 10pm. The Kitchen on the river does great lunches.\"Owen Smith \"The best thing? For many years there have been no private schools.\" Donald Shiach \"The Eden Court complex - two theatres, two cinemas, a performance space, restaurant and bar. Plus it's only 45 minutes to the ski slopes.\" Karen Furness \"A lovely, clean, relaxed city with a village feel. But getting anywhere is hard work if you don't drive. My first bus on a Sunday isn't until 1.30pm!\"\u2022 Do you live in Bristol? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, please write, by next Friday, to lets.move@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Property", "Life and style", "Homes"], "title": "Tell us what it is like to live in Inverness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's economy faces a \"slow grind\" as it recovers from the banking crisis, and it will be 2017 before employment returns to pre-recession levels, according to a new study.In its summer update, the Ernst and Young Scottish Item Club predicts that the economy will contract by 3.1% this year, and stagnate in 2010, before finally nudging back to growth in 2011.\"The patient is still a long way from recovery and there is more pain to come in the form of significant job losses,\" said Dougie Adams, the report's author.A vibrant financial services sector, led by Royal Bank of Scotland, has been at the heart of Scotland's economic success story over the past decade; but after its collapse - and with HBOS, too, swallowed up by Lloyds - Scotland will be forced to look for alternative engines of prosperity.Adams said although the decline of sterling against the euro should bring more continental visitors, boosting the crucial tourist industry, belt-tightening by domestic consumers was likely to offset the rise in foreign spending. \"The impact [increase in tourists] is negated by the generalised weakness in consumers' expenditure,\" he said.", "tags": ["Economic recovery", "Banking", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Business", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Economic recovery: Few green shoots in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-05-29T14:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The deal covers software and support for existing Oracle customers in Scotland's central government departments, local authorities, fire and police services.Procurement Scotland told GC News it will lead to significant savings for those organisations and provide greater flexibility around shared services and citizens access.The arrangement does not cover new customers. Scottish NHS organisations are excluded from the agreement as they had a prior agreement in place providing similar financial benefits. The education sector is offered much lower rates by the vendor as a matter of course.It was negotiated directly with Oracle for their proprietary software, which is currently deployed by the 80 public bodies included in the agreement.The deal, which was awarded in April, was announced in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 May 2009.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland establishes national Oracle deal"},{"date": "2009-05-15T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We've definitely found Badrallach, a crofting township on Scotland's north-west coast. A painted sign on a five-bar gate says Peatcutter's Croft, and there's roadside parking opposite. A sloping garden stretches away to sodden fields and the choppy waters of Little Loch Broom. Dodging raindrops and sidestepping sociable hens, we bash on the croft door. It's a big welcoming committee of small inhabitants. Those who can talk introduce themselves, but since I have no idea how to spell their names, I ask the eldest of three children at the doorway to write them in my notebook. He's 10, and his name sounds like Ocean, but it's Oisean. \"It means 'little deer,'\" he explains. Uma is eight, there is toddler Gaelan, and a sheepdog (jumping for joy at our arrival and continually escaping banishment to the hall) called Skye. The cats, Fang and Oscarito, peer at us through a window. Then Dad appears. Seori (pronounced \"Shoory\") grabs our bags and leads us down a narrow hallway. We're in the byre, added later to the 120-year-old croft and now housing up to four guests in an almost self-contained unit.Ooh, it's a G-plan cave, a cool blend of rough whitewashed stone and glass. Beside a Norwegian Jotul woodburner are baskets of peat and logs. A Vitra chair by Mario Bellini is covered by a sheepskin throw and sits invitingly beside shelves bearing Scottish titles. Above the double futon bed is a bed platform, the steps a series of giant holes cut into a thick wooden screen. My good deed is volunteering to sleep aloft (thus ensuring entertainment later, when the only way I can ascend without the \"steps\" cutting into my feet is by donning wedge heels).\"It's a galley bathroom,\" calls a disembodied voice from somewhere down the hall. \"And the towels are Fenn Wright Manson,\" says my friend Daniela, returning to our room. Back in the kitchen, we chat and play Corgi car crashes around mugs of tea and coconut macaroons - specially made for my gluten-free friend. Architect and musician Seori and his wife Pauline, a former editor, have returned to Scotland from south London and are committed to a more sustainable life here. Water comes from a burn, fruit and vegetables are homegrown and they cut their own peat. In summer there is mackerel from the loch, and \"brilliant mussel beds - we go about once a month,\" says Seori. \"Our Gloucester old spot pigs are all in the freezer now,\" says Pauline, back from work and now making dinner. \"What's the population of Badrallach?\" I ask between mouthfuls of soup (pea, mint and their own ham). \"There are 12 residents,\" explains Pauline \"and you're looking at five of them.\" Last winter some guests were snowed in for three nights, she tells us. Lucky them, we think, tackling quinoa tabbouleh (no wheat, clever) and a roasted vegetable dish called turlu turlu from the Moro Cookbook, then mini pavlovas with rhubarb fool. Warmed by an Aga and sitting amid all this human (and occasionally canine) life heightens our sense of the enveloping nothingness outside. At breakfast there is an ever changing view through a tiny kitchen window. Songbirds flutter at fronds of spring foliage, fat chickens suddenly hop into frame on the sill, replaced moments later by Fang and Oscarito. There is plenty of rain, but no snow, and the wilderness is waiting.Best for: Sociable types into walking.Cost: B&B, \u00a330pp, children half-price. Dinner, \u00a325 per head, BYO wine. Pick-ups from Garve railway station or Inverness. Picnics and day trips arranged - enquire about charges. For more information on Scotland: 0845 22 55 121, visitscotland.com/perfectday.sally.shalam@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Weekend breaks", "Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Hotels", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays", "Ethical holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Hotel review: Peatcutter's Croft, Ross-shire, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it?If you're seeking solace, comfort and a retreat from the agues of life in these troubled times, Dumfries is as good a place as any. What possible hardship could come to anyone who lived in Dumfries? The place is as soothing as its name sounds - Dum-freeeece - as soft and gentle as a gambolling spring lamb wrapped in Andrex. The centre is nice enough, with its share of pretty areas clinging to the jaunty river Nith. But what draws the locals is the countryside. Don't come expecting drama. Dumfriesshire is as gentle as the town, though it has its share of wild moors and endless forest to the north. What's so attractive is its quietness, the sheer emptiness. Most of us tend to pass it by en route to glitzier places such as Glasgow, or the ferry at Stranraer, leaving the glories of the Solway coast and Merrick mountain for you to clamber over, letting the prettiness wash over you like a balm. The case againstA little undemanding. Rumour has it the new out-of-town Tesco is gradually draining the centre of life. Well connected? Twenty minutes' drive from the A74(M) and thence the M6 up to Glasgow (two hours) and down to the rest of the world. Trains: hourly to Carlisle (40 minutes) and the west coast mainline; also up Nithsdale to Kilmarnock and Ayr (90 minutes). SchoolsOf those with HMIE inspection reports, \"good\" or \"very good\" are St Michael's, Lochside, Cargenbridge, St Ninian's; Lincluden is mostly \"good\" or \"adequate\", as is Loreburn, which has \"very good\" pastoral care. Secondaries: Dumfries Academy \"good\" or \"very good\", Maxwelltown Academy and St Joseph's College mostly \"good\". Hang out at...The Swan at Kingholm Quay, The Lyver or Gracefield Arts Centre. Where to buySouth and west. Select suburbans off Glencaple and Kingholm Roads. Great period property south of the centre around Pleasance Avenue; lovely rosy Victorian semis and villas around Edinburgh Road and Lovers Walk, and off Lockerbie Road. Great stone terraces south of Brooms Road. The centre has its moments, too, especially around Castle Street. Market valuesFive-bed detacheds, modern and period, and farmhouses, \u00a3250,000-\u00a3380,000. Smaller detacheds, \u00a3150,000-\u00a3250,000. Semis and bungalows, \u00a3110,000 up to \u00a3250,000 for Victorian semis. Terraces, \u00a375,000-\u00a3175,000. Bargain of the weekListed Georgian end of terrace in the centre of town, needing modernisation, \u00a395,000, with Buccleuch John Sale (01573 224244). Live in Dumfries? Join the debate at theguardian.com/money/property Valentina Bold\"Dumfries has three major things going for it: community, countryside and culture. It's friendly, and set in some of Scotland's most beautiful landscapes. Try Rift Valley for jazz and Bruno's Italian restaurant, a Dumfries institution.\" Andy Doonan\"The town itself is not so picturesque, but it's a gateway to miles of beautiful coastline.\" Jack Lennox\"Visit Rabbie Burns' favourite pub, The Globe, and New Abbey, a picture-postcard village.\" Darren Connor\"Dumfries has one of the best small cinemas in the UK, housed in a converted mill.\"", "tags": ["Property", "Life and style", "Homes", "Money"], "title": "Let's move to ... Dumfries"},{"date": "2009-04-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A major new road safety campaign is to be launched tomorrow to warn drivers of the deadly dangers of deer on Scotland's roads.An average of three people a year are killed and numerous others seriously injured in around 10,000 accidents involving deer as they roam across rural and suburban roads in search of fresh pastures.Collisions involving deer usually peak between now and the middle of next month, prompting Transport Scotland and the Deer Commission for Scotland (DCS) to run a high-visibility awareness campaign for drivers across the country, but particularly throughout the central belt, north-east of Glasgow, Aberdeenshire, Morayshire and around the Dundee area.\"Juvenile roe deer are a higher risk on the roads at this time of year, as their mothers are about to give birth, leaving one-year-olds to find their own way for the first time. This leaves the younger roe in search of territories of their own and can often lead to them wandering across roads,\" said Jamie Hammond, of the DCS.\"We often find that people who live in and around towns think that these warnings aren't really that relevant to them, but in fact accident rates are often higher in areas with more people and more cars on the road. Accidents certainly don't only occur on the most rural roads in the Highlands.\"Millions of pounds of damage and personal injury claims are caused by collisions with deer every year.According to the Deer Collision Database, it's not just Scotland where there is a danger to motorists, as accidents have been recorded across Britain.Accidents involving deer are not reportable and the police don't get involved unless there are injuries to people, which means the actual number of collisions each year could be as high as 50,000 across the UK.Many of the deer hit by cars are not killed outright, and instead have to be put down at the roadside, while others escape to die later of their injuries.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Animals", "UK news", "World news", "Road safety"], "title": "Deer threaten drivers in Scotland"},{"date": "2009-04-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it? There's a different light up here. Cooler, icier. When you get to Inverness' big country, Britain seems to have more in common with Iceland and Lapland than Exeter or Llandudno. The northern lights are as common as muck. There's a landscape of epic magnificence 15 minutes away - the Highlands one way, the Cairngorms the other. Admittedly shifting up (or down) here is one to file under \"major life change\", but faint heart, eh? The place has had a booming few years, usually scores high in quality of life surveys and, dammit, there are dolphins in the Moray Firth. I'm off.The case against Remoteness. It's a few hours' drive to anywhere else the same size. A fair heft of gloomy weather and dark, dark winters (but light, light summers). Many delivery firms don't count Inverness as \"UK mainland\" and slap on extra charges.Well connected? The airport, just outside town, flies to Birmingham, Gatwick, Manchester, Belfast, Southampton, Luton, Bristol, Edinburgh and more Highlands and islands. Rail to Edinburgh (210 mins, every two or three hours), north to Wick (four hours) and west to Kyle of Lochalsh (135 mins). Two direct trains a day to London (eight hours); trains every hour or two to Aberdeen (135 mins).Schools Primaries: Lochardil, Holm, Hilton, Crown, Central and Muirtown have a \"broad and balanced\", \"good\" curriculum, says HMIE; Merkinch has a \"good ethos\". Secondaries: Charleston Academy has a \"good ethos\", while Higher results in Inverness Royal and Millburn are \"well above national average\".Hang out at... Hootananny on a Friday night. Or a Tuesday. Or a wet Saturday afternoon. Where to buy South and east's traditionally posh, with villas lining the river on both sides, and leafy streets of stone Victorian semis. Some lovely stone terraces skirting south of the city centre, and west of Kenneth Street on the west side. Decent modern suburbs. Lots of new-build, too. Check out the commuter belt lining the Moray Firth, with its extraordinary views. My money's on the Black Isle's pretty towns, like Cromarty and Fortrose. Market values Five- or six-bed Victorian villas, \u00a3450,000-\u00a3550,000. Modern detacheds, \u00a3200,000-\u00a3450,000; semis and bungalows, \u00a3170,000-\u00a3250,000. Terraces, \u00a3130,000-\u00a3300,000. Flats, \u00a380,000-\u00a3260,000.Bargain of the week Nice, Victorian three-bed terrace, needs upgrading; \u00a3120,000, with Your Move (01463 221166). \u2022 Live in Inverness? Join the debate at theguardian.com/money/propertyCaroline Warburton \"You have easy access to mountains and beaches; summer evenings stay light until well after 10pm. The Kitchen on the river does great lunches.\"Owen Smith \"The best thing? For many years there have been no private schools.\" Donald Shiach \"The Eden Court complex - two theatres, two cinemas, a performance space, restaurant and bar. Plus it's only 45 minutes to the ski slopes.\" Karen Furness \"A lovely, clean, relaxed city with a village feel. But getting anywhere is hard work if you don't drive. My first bus on a Sunday isn't until 1.30pm!\"\u2022 Do you live in Bristol? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, please write, by next Friday, to lets.move@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Property", "Life and style", "Homes"], "title": "Tell us what it is like to live in Inverness, Scotland"},{"date": "2009-06-11T14:18:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Six paedophiles involved in what was believed to be Scotland's largest ring of child pornographers were given jail sentences today ranging from two to 17 years after a harrowing trial last month.The case followed a police inquiry in which nearly 125,000 indecent images were seized, some based on the abuse of babies in the Edinburgh area.The judge, Lord Bannatyne, told the defendants he was passing substantial sentences because of the seriousness of the crimes and the need to combat the trade in child pornography.\"These offences involve real children and many of the photographs involve children being sexually abused, often in the most appalling ways,\" he said. \"There are real victims of these offences, namely the children who are photographed and abused.\"The gang's ringleaders, Neil Strachan, 41, a convicted sex offender, and James Rennie, 38, a lesbian and gay rights campaigner, face life terms when they are sentenced next month for more serious offences including the abuse of infant boys they were babysitting.The ring was uncovered during Operation Algebra, launched by police after the discovery of indecent images on a hard drive installed on Strachan's business laptop when he took it for repair.Using digital software analysis from the US and new techniques to trace emails, detectives in Edinburgh were able to tie all eight men into a conspiracy to create, share and then pass on child pornography using file-sharing sites and email.Their abuse and activities lasted for more than four years, and the investigation uncovered activity by about 200 people around the world. Leads on about 70 other people were sent to police forces across the UK.Ross Webber, 27, of North Berwick, Craig Boath, 24, of Dundee, Colin Slaven, 24, of Edinburgh, and John Milligan, 40, of Glasgow, were found guilty of conspiring to participate in the sexual abuse of children as well as other child pornography charges.Milligan, a civil servant, was jailed for 17 years, Boath, an insurance worker, for nine years and nine months, while Webber, a bank clerk, was given eight years and nine months. Slaven was given a three-year sentence, including one year for appearing drunk in court.Neil Campbell, 46, a cake firm manager from Glasgow, was given three years and four months, while John Murphy, 44, a sauna receptionist from Glasgow, was jailed for two years.The 10-week trial heard and saw harrowing and distressing evidence. At one point, the judge adjourned the trial after hearing about the rape of a four-year-old girl, and the court was cleared when jurors had to see some of the most challenging images.Five of the eight men \u2013 Strachan, Rennie, Webber, Boath and Milligan \u2013 were found guilty last month of conspiring to get access to a child or children to commit abuse. They had conspired to commit sexual offences, including rape and sodomy.Strachan was convicted of attempting to rape an 18-month-old boy in Edinburgh he was babysitting on New Year's Eve in 2005. Rennie was found guilty of molesting a young boy over more than four years; the infant was three months old when it began.Detective Inspector Stuart Hood, of Lothian and Borders police, said: \"Operation Algebra uncovered a sickening volume of horrific images, and every single one will have caused the children involved untold trauma.\"These men shared these vile pictures, and took part in online discussions that would repulse any reasonable human being.\"As an investigator it is often difficult to reconcile why individuals resort to this abhorrent behaviour. Despite this, Algebra has taught us many lessons and we will use these to target those who seek to commit these crimes.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "Crime", "UK news", "Organised crime", "World news"], "title": "Six jailed in Scotland over child pornography"},{"date": "2009-09-24T09:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland, the Attorney General, has done nothing wrong in employing an irregular migrant who has been in the UK for many years. Had she done so knowingly, she could have borne witness to her Catholic beliefs. For it is a key tenet of modern Catholic social teaching that \"illegal immigrants\" \u2013 an inappropriate term, as we'll see \u2013 acquire rights to stay over time, and should be recognised by the law.The principle was stated only the other day by the Cardinal Archbishop of Chicago, Francis George, who is no liberal. The church does not encourage illegal immigration, he said, \"but we should also say you have to respect the people in front of you. If you have neighbours and family members who have been subjected to society financially, socially and religiously for decades, they should be able to live here with security.\" That's why the US bishops are strong advocates of a pathway into citizenship for long-term irregular migrants, of whom there are close to 500,000 in the UK and many millions in the US. Next year, President Obama will be putting forward just such a plan. The state's right to deport erodes over time; the longer a person stays, the stronger the moral claim to remain. Take Marguerite Grimmond, an 80-year-old woman born in the US but resident in the UK from the age of two, who went on a vacation to Australia only to be told, on her return, that she had no right to reside in the UK and faced deportation. The case came to light in June 2007; she was in every sense an illegal immigrant, who knew that she did not have British citizenship, who had evaded immigration controls. Yet she was allowed to regularise her status, because the moral absurdity of forcing her to leave a place where she had lived so long was evident, whatever the legal technicalities. Time confers a moral right to remain because there is something deeply wrong with uprooting people who have put down roots and formed lasting human connections. How long does that take? Most experts, and common sense, put that period at about five years. So does the Catholic church. On 4 May this year, the Catholic bishop in charge of the church's policy on migrants, said in a homily: \"There is clear moral case that undocumented workers who have lived and worked in this country for five years or more should be given the opportunity to build a future in the United Kingdom and continue to contribute to British society.\"That is the period which the London Citizens campaign, Strangers into Citizens \u2013 inspired by the former Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster's 2006 call for a conditional amnesty programme \u2013 argues should be the precondition of a UK regularisation programme. The campaigners have persuaded London's mayor, Boris Johnson, to back the idea, which has been been studied by the London Schools of Economics. The LSE says the mayor's plan would regularise 618,000 people and add \u00a33bn to the UK economy. And it would not act as a green light to illegal immigration. How long has Baroness Scotland's 27-year-old Tongan housekeeper, Loloahi Tapui-Zivancevic, been in the UK? More than five years. She came to the UK legally. She goes to an Anglican church in west London. She is married to a solicitor. She gives every sign of being a rooted, contributing citizen of the UK, and is precisely the kind of person who would be eligible under the mayor's proposals. Not only is it morally wrong to deport her, but she has a powerful case to have her residence recognised in law. But for now, surely, the law's the law, and the Attorney-General is there to uphold it? But there are different kinds of laws. Lady Scotland has caused general outrage by saying her offence is no more than failing to pay the congestion charge \u2013 \"an administrative, technical error\". But she's right. Immigration offences are not criminal but administrative violations. That is why the term \"illegal immigrant\" is absurd. A person cannot be illegal, only a criminal. And an undocumented migrant, despite the best efforts of some tabloids, is not a criminal \u2013 any more than is a person who absent-mindedly breaks the speed limit. And someone who employs an undocumented migrant, believing \u2013 on the paper evidence \u2013 that she has a right to work, is doing nothing remotely wrong. And even if she knowingly did so, as a Catholic, her conscience would be clear. As a lawyer, Baroness Scotland also knows that time erodes the state's power to pursue legal violations. Three to five years is considered the maximum time for enforcing many criminal offences, let alone administrative ones. The notion that foreigners who have put down roots in Britain \u2013 often after waiting more than a decade for their asylum claim to be processed \u2013 can be deported is simply absurd. No one claims that half a million people can be forcibly removed, by this or any other state. The right step, the step advocated by the church of which Lady Scotland is a keen member, is to give them the legal right to stay.If Baroness Scotland can be accused of hypocrisy, it is that she is apologising for what she has done instead of defending it from the best principles in both her faith and the law.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Immigration and asylum", "Politics", "Labour", "Law", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland shouldn't apologise | Austen Ivereigh"},{"date": "2009-09-24T09:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland, the Attorney General, has done nothing wrong in employing an irregular migrant who has been in the UK for many years. Had she done so knowingly, she could have borne witness to her Catholic beliefs. For it is a key tenet of modern Catholic social teaching that \"illegal immigrants\" \u2013 an inappropriate term, as we'll see \u2013 acquire rights to stay over time, and should be recognised by the law.The principle was stated only the other day by the Cardinal Archbishop of Chicago, Francis George, who is no liberal. The church does not encourage illegal immigration, he said, \"but we should also say you have to respect the people in front of you. If you have neighbours and family members who have been subjected to society financially, socially and religiously for decades, they should be able to live here with security.\" That's why the US bishops are strong advocates of a pathway into citizenship for long-term irregular migrants, of whom there are close to 500,000 in the UK and many millions in the US. Next year, President Obama will be putting forward just such a plan. The state's right to deport erodes over time; the longer a person stays, the stronger the moral claim to remain. Take Marguerite Grimmond, an 80-year-old woman born in the US but resident in the UK from the age of two, who went on a vacation to Australia only to be told, on her return, that she had no right to reside in the UK and faced deportation. The case came to light in June 2007; she was in every sense an illegal immigrant, who knew that she did not have British citizenship, who had evaded immigration controls. Yet she was allowed to regularise her status, because the moral absurdity of forcing her to leave a place where she had lived so long was evident, whatever the legal technicalities. Time confers a moral right to remain because there is something deeply wrong with uprooting people who have put down roots and formed lasting human connections. How long does that take? Most experts, and common sense, put that period at about five years. So does the Catholic church. On 4 May this year, the Catholic bishop in charge of the church's policy on migrants, said in a homily: \"There is clear moral case that undocumented workers who have lived and worked in this country for five years or more should be given the opportunity to build a future in the United Kingdom and continue to contribute to British society.\"That is the period which the London Citizens campaign, Strangers into Citizens \u2013 inspired by the former Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster's 2006 call for a conditional amnesty programme \u2013 argues should be the precondition of a UK regularisation programme. The campaigners have persuaded London's mayor, Boris Johnson, to back the idea, which has been been studied by the London Schools of Economics. The LSE says the mayor's plan would regularise 618,000 people and add \u00a33bn to the UK economy. And it would not act as a green light to illegal immigration. How long has Baroness Scotland's 27-year-old Tongan housekeeper, Loloahi Tapui-Zivancevic, been in the UK? More than five years. She came to the UK legally. She goes to an Anglican church in west London. She is married to a solicitor. She gives every sign of being a rooted, contributing citizen of the UK, and is precisely the kind of person who would be eligible under the mayor's proposals. Not only is it morally wrong to deport her, but she has a powerful case to have her residence recognised in law. But for now, surely, the law's the law, and the Attorney-General is there to uphold it? But there are different kinds of laws. Lady Scotland has caused general outrage by saying her offence is no more than failing to pay the congestion charge \u2013 \"an administrative, technical error\". But she's right. Immigration offences are not criminal but administrative violations. That is why the term \"illegal immigrant\" is absurd. A person cannot be illegal, only a criminal. And an undocumented migrant, despite the best efforts of some tabloids, is not a criminal \u2013 any more than is a person who absent-mindedly breaks the speed limit. And someone who employs an undocumented migrant, believing \u2013 on the paper evidence \u2013 that she has a right to work, is doing nothing remotely wrong. And even if she knowingly did so, as a Catholic, her conscience would be clear. As a lawyer, Baroness Scotland also knows that time erodes the state's power to pursue legal violations. Three to five years is considered the maximum time for enforcing many criminal offences, let alone administrative ones. The notion that foreigners who have put down roots in Britain \u2013 often after waiting more than a decade for their asylum claim to be processed \u2013 can be deported is simply absurd. No one claims that half a million people can be forcibly removed, by this or any other state. The right step, the step advocated by the church of which Lady Scotland is a keen member, is to give them the legal right to stay.If Baroness Scotland can be accused of hypocrisy, it is that she is apologising for what she has done instead of defending it from the best principles in both her faith and the law.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Immigration and asylum", "Politics", "Labour", "Law", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland shouldn't apologise | Austen Ivereigh"},{"date": "2009-09-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland should have said how deeply sorry she was for failing properly to vet her new housekeeper. But, instead, she insisted that she didn't have to be deeply sorry because she hadn't done much wrong. A \u00a35,000 illegal worker fine is apparently like a \u00a360 congestion-charge fine. Which can only mean one of three things. Congestion-charge fines should be \u00a35,000. Illegal worker fines should be \u00a360. Or neither is much money to the attorney general, who has forgotten that, for a lot of people, \u00a360, let alone \u00a35,000, is a big dent in the self- administered housekeeping. They all learned so very little from their expenses drubbing. What on earth can be done with them?", "tags": ["Politics", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland: What a fine mess | Deborah Orr"},{"date": "2009-09-24T09:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland, the Attorney General, has done nothing wrong in employing an irregular migrant who has been in the UK for many years. Had she done so knowingly, she could have borne witness to her Catholic beliefs. For it is a key tenet of modern Catholic social teaching that \"illegal immigrants\" \u2013 an inappropriate term, as we'll see \u2013 acquire rights to stay over time, and should be recognised by the law.The principle was stated only the other day by the Cardinal Archbishop of Chicago, Francis George, who is no liberal. The church does not encourage illegal immigration, he said, \"but we should also say you have to respect the people in front of you. If you have neighbours and family members who have been subjected to society financially, socially and religiously for decades, they should be able to live here with security.\" That's why the US bishops are strong advocates of a pathway into citizenship for long-term irregular migrants, of whom there are close to 500,000 in the UK and many millions in the US. Next year, President Obama will be putting forward just such a plan. The state's right to deport erodes over time; the longer a person stays, the stronger the moral claim to remain. Take Marguerite Grimmond, an 80-year-old woman born in the US but resident in the UK from the age of two, who went on a vacation to Australia only to be told, on her return, that she had no right to reside in the UK and faced deportation. The case came to light in June 2007; she was in every sense an illegal immigrant, who knew that she did not have British citizenship, who had evaded immigration controls. Yet she was allowed to regularise her status, because the moral absurdity of forcing her to leave a place where she had lived so long was evident, whatever the legal technicalities. Time confers a moral right to remain because there is something deeply wrong with uprooting people who have put down roots and formed lasting human connections. How long does that take? Most experts, and common sense, put that period at about five years. So does the Catholic church. On 4 May this year, the Catholic bishop in charge of the church's policy on migrants, said in a homily: \"There is clear moral case that undocumented workers who have lived and worked in this country for five years or more should be given the opportunity to build a future in the United Kingdom and continue to contribute to British society.\"That is the period which the London Citizens campaign, Strangers into Citizens \u2013 inspired by the former Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster's 2006 call for a conditional amnesty programme \u2013 argues should be the precondition of a UK regularisation programme. The campaigners have persuaded London's mayor, Boris Johnson, to back the idea, which has been been studied by the London Schools of Economics. The LSE says the mayor's plan would regularise 618,000 people and add \u00a33bn to the UK economy. And it would not act as a green light to illegal immigration. How long has Baroness Scotland's 27-year-old Tongan housekeeper, Loloahi Tapui-Zivancevic, been in the UK? More than five years. She came to the UK legally. She goes to an Anglican church in west London. She is married to a solicitor. She gives every sign of being a rooted, contributing citizen of the UK, and is precisely the kind of person who would be eligible under the mayor's proposals. Not only is it morally wrong to deport her, but she has a powerful case to have her residence recognised in law. But for now, surely, the law's the law, and the Attorney-General is there to uphold it? But there are different kinds of laws. Lady Scotland has caused general outrage by saying her offence is no more than failing to pay the congestion charge \u2013 \"an administrative, technical error\". But she's right. Immigration offences are not criminal but administrative violations. That is why the term \"illegal immigrant\" is absurd. A person cannot be illegal, only a criminal. And an undocumented migrant, despite the best efforts of some tabloids, is not a criminal \u2013 any more than is a person who absent-mindedly breaks the speed limit. And someone who employs an undocumented migrant, believing \u2013 on the paper evidence \u2013 that she has a right to work, is doing nothing remotely wrong. And even if she knowingly did so, as a Catholic, her conscience would be clear. As a lawyer, Baroness Scotland also knows that time erodes the state's power to pursue legal violations. Three to five years is considered the maximum time for enforcing many criminal offences, let alone administrative ones. The notion that foreigners who have put down roots in Britain \u2013 often after waiting more than a decade for their asylum claim to be processed \u2013 can be deported is simply absurd. No one claims that half a million people can be forcibly removed, by this or any other state. The right step, the step advocated by the church of which Lady Scotland is a keen member, is to give them the legal right to stay.If Baroness Scotland can be accused of hypocrisy, it is that she is apologising for what she has done instead of defending it from the best principles in both her faith and the law.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Immigration and asylum", "Politics", "Labour", "Law", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland shouldn't apologise | Austen Ivereigh"},{"date": "2009-09-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland should have said how deeply sorry she was for failing properly to vet her new housekeeper. But, instead, she insisted that she didn't have to be deeply sorry because she hadn't done much wrong. A \u00a35,000 illegal worker fine is apparently like a \u00a360 congestion-charge fine. Which can only mean one of three things. Congestion-charge fines should be \u00a35,000. Illegal worker fines should be \u00a360. Or neither is much money to the attorney general, who has forgotten that, for a lot of people, \u00a360, let alone \u00a35,000, is a big dent in the self- administered housekeeping. They all learned so very little from their expenses drubbing. What on earth can be done with them?", "tags": ["Politics", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland: What a fine mess | Deborah Orr"},{"date": "2009-09-22T11:51:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So Gordon Brown has decided not to sack Lady Scotland as the government's senior legal officer despite her being fined \u00a35,000 today for hiring an illegal immigrant.Good. Let's hope that, this time, the prime minister doesn't dither and change his mind under pressure from the stone-throwing tabloids.Scotland, the attorney general, has apologised for hiring Loloahi Tapui as her housekeeper without making adequate checks or keeping copies of the documents she did see.The UK Border Agency accepted that she did not knowingly employ someone whose visa ran out years ago.As I noted here the other day, of the two couples in this tale, three of the four people \u2013 Scotland, her barrister husband and Tapui's British solicitor husband \u2013 are all lawyers who ought to have been more careful to secure her residential status, a relatively easy thing to do for someone with a British spouse.So only the non-lawyer in the case has lost her job. But should Scotland, who helped pass the relevant legislation as a Home Office minister and is the cabinet's legal adviser, lose hers, too?Phone-ins and chatrooms have been crowded since this morning's announcement of the administrative (not criminal) penalty, with people complaining that it's one law for the rich, another for the poor. Is that true in this case? I doubt it.The laws against employing illegal immigrants are designed to deter people who do it systemically \u2013 either in business or their own homes \u2013 to gain cheap, malleable workers who can't complain much.I don't think that motive will have applied to either party here, do you?So what it's really about is whipping up negative feeling about immigrants, legal or not, and the jobs they do in our economy, often because we won't do them ourselves (or at least not for the money on offer).In a free society, immigration rules are always hard to enforce. Labour has been guilty of passing many ineffectual ones: window-dressing as a substitute for effective administration.But too many efforts are made to trip up ministers of all parties and get them sacked for essentially trivial reasons \u2013 the kinds of mistakes people in all classes in our complicated society make.I don't think we can expect the attorney general to have spotted a dodgy passport.Here in Bournemouth, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Chris Huhne, has called Scotland's position untenable, as has his Tory counterpart, Chris Grayling.The Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, sounded more cautious \u2013 good for him. Leave that sort of stuff to the rottweilers.Politicians should be sacked or forced to resign for proper reasons, as Peter Mandelson was once (but not twice) and David Blunkett was on neither occasion. The record is usually mixed.This is not such an occasion. Labour is short of competent lawyers (they make so much money in private practice today). Scotland is a competent female, black lawyer. A second chance is called for. But don't do it again.", "tags": ["House of Lords", "Gordon Brown", "Chris Huhne", "Chris Grayling", "Nick Clegg", "Peter Mandelson", "David Blunkett", "Politics", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Why Baroness Scotland deserves a second chance"},{"date": "2009-09-24T09:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland, the Attorney General, has done nothing wrong in employing an irregular migrant who has been in the UK for many years. Had she done so knowingly, she could have borne witness to her Catholic beliefs. For it is a key tenet of modern Catholic social teaching that \"illegal immigrants\" \u2013 an inappropriate term, as we'll see \u2013 acquire rights to stay over time, and should be recognised by the law.The principle was stated only the other day by the Cardinal Archbishop of Chicago, Francis George, who is no liberal. The church does not encourage illegal immigration, he said, \"but we should also say you have to respect the people in front of you. If you have neighbours and family members who have been subjected to society financially, socially and religiously for decades, they should be able to live here with security.\" That's why the US bishops are strong advocates of a pathway into citizenship for long-term irregular migrants, of whom there are close to 500,000 in the UK and many millions in the US. Next year, President Obama will be putting forward just such a plan. The state's right to deport erodes over time; the longer a person stays, the stronger the moral claim to remain. Take Marguerite Grimmond, an 80-year-old woman born in the US but resident in the UK from the age of two, who went on a vacation to Australia only to be told, on her return, that she had no right to reside in the UK and faced deportation. The case came to light in June 2007; she was in every sense an illegal immigrant, who knew that she did not have British citizenship, who had evaded immigration controls. Yet she was allowed to regularise her status, because the moral absurdity of forcing her to leave a place where she had lived so long was evident, whatever the legal technicalities. Time confers a moral right to remain because there is something deeply wrong with uprooting people who have put down roots and formed lasting human connections. How long does that take? Most experts, and common sense, put that period at about five years. So does the Catholic church. On 4 May this year, the Catholic bishop in charge of the church's policy on migrants, said in a homily: \"There is clear moral case that undocumented workers who have lived and worked in this country for five years or more should be given the opportunity to build a future in the United Kingdom and continue to contribute to British society.\"That is the period which the London Citizens campaign, Strangers into Citizens \u2013 inspired by the former Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster's 2006 call for a conditional amnesty programme \u2013 argues should be the precondition of a UK regularisation programme. The campaigners have persuaded London's mayor, Boris Johnson, to back the idea, which has been been studied by the London Schools of Economics. The LSE says the mayor's plan would regularise 618,000 people and add \u00a33bn to the UK economy. And it would not act as a green light to illegal immigration. How long has Baroness Scotland's 27-year-old Tongan housekeeper, Loloahi Tapui-Zivancevic, been in the UK? More than five years. She came to the UK legally. She goes to an Anglican church in west London. She is married to a solicitor. She gives every sign of being a rooted, contributing citizen of the UK, and is precisely the kind of person who would be eligible under the mayor's proposals. Not only is it morally wrong to deport her, but she has a powerful case to have her residence recognised in law. But for now, surely, the law's the law, and the Attorney-General is there to uphold it? But there are different kinds of laws. Lady Scotland has caused general outrage by saying her offence is no more than failing to pay the congestion charge \u2013 \"an administrative, technical error\". But she's right. Immigration offences are not criminal but administrative violations. That is why the term \"illegal immigrant\" is absurd. A person cannot be illegal, only a criminal. And an undocumented migrant, despite the best efforts of some tabloids, is not a criminal \u2013 any more than is a person who absent-mindedly breaks the speed limit. And someone who employs an undocumented migrant, believing \u2013 on the paper evidence \u2013 that she has a right to work, is doing nothing remotely wrong. And even if she knowingly did so, as a Catholic, her conscience would be clear. As a lawyer, Baroness Scotland also knows that time erodes the state's power to pursue legal violations. Three to five years is considered the maximum time for enforcing many criminal offences, let alone administrative ones. The notion that foreigners who have put down roots in Britain \u2013 often after waiting more than a decade for their asylum claim to be processed \u2013 can be deported is simply absurd. No one claims that half a million people can be forcibly removed, by this or any other state. The right step, the step advocated by the church of which Lady Scotland is a keen member, is to give them the legal right to stay.If Baroness Scotland can be accused of hypocrisy, it is that she is apologising for what she has done instead of defending it from the best principles in both her faith and the law.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Immigration and asylum", "Politics", "Labour", "Law", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland shouldn't apologise | Austen Ivereigh"},{"date": "2009-09-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland should have said how deeply sorry she was for failing properly to vet her new housekeeper. But, instead, she insisted that she didn't have to be deeply sorry because she hadn't done much wrong. A \u00a35,000 illegal worker fine is apparently like a \u00a360 congestion-charge fine. Which can only mean one of three things. Congestion-charge fines should be \u00a35,000. Illegal worker fines should be \u00a360. Or neither is much money to the attorney general, who has forgotten that, for a lot of people, \u00a360, let alone \u00a35,000, is a big dent in the self- administered housekeeping. They all learned so very little from their expenses drubbing. What on earth can be done with them?", "tags": ["Politics", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland: What a fine mess | Deborah Orr"},{"date": "2009-09-22T11:51:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So Gordon Brown has decided not to sack Lady Scotland as the government's senior legal officer despite her being fined \u00a35,000 today for hiring an illegal immigrant.Good. Let's hope that, this time, the prime minister doesn't dither and change his mind under pressure from the stone-throwing tabloids.Scotland, the attorney general, has apologised for hiring Loloahi Tapui as her housekeeper without making adequate checks or keeping copies of the documents she did see.The UK Border Agency accepted that she did not knowingly employ someone whose visa ran out years ago.As I noted here the other day, of the two couples in this tale, three of the four people \u2013 Scotland, her barrister husband and Tapui's British solicitor husband \u2013 are all lawyers who ought to have been more careful to secure her residential status, a relatively easy thing to do for someone with a British spouse.So only the non-lawyer in the case has lost her job. But should Scotland, who helped pass the relevant legislation as a Home Office minister and is the cabinet's legal adviser, lose hers, too?Phone-ins and chatrooms have been crowded since this morning's announcement of the administrative (not criminal) penalty, with people complaining that it's one law for the rich, another for the poor. Is that true in this case? I doubt it.The laws against employing illegal immigrants are designed to deter people who do it systemically \u2013 either in business or their own homes \u2013 to gain cheap, malleable workers who can't complain much.I don't think that motive will have applied to either party here, do you?So what it's really about is whipping up negative feeling about immigrants, legal or not, and the jobs they do in our economy, often because we won't do them ourselves (or at least not for the money on offer).In a free society, immigration rules are always hard to enforce. Labour has been guilty of passing many ineffectual ones: window-dressing as a substitute for effective administration.But too many efforts are made to trip up ministers of all parties and get them sacked for essentially trivial reasons \u2013 the kinds of mistakes people in all classes in our complicated society make.I don't think we can expect the attorney general to have spotted a dodgy passport.Here in Bournemouth, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Chris Huhne, has called Scotland's position untenable, as has his Tory counterpart, Chris Grayling.The Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, sounded more cautious \u2013 good for him. Leave that sort of stuff to the rottweilers.Politicians should be sacked or forced to resign for proper reasons, as Peter Mandelson was once (but not twice) and David Blunkett was on neither occasion. The record is usually mixed.This is not such an occasion. Labour is short of competent lawyers (they make so much money in private practice today). Scotland is a competent female, black lawyer. A second chance is called for. But don't do it again.", "tags": ["House of Lords", "Gordon Brown", "Chris Huhne", "Chris Grayling", "Nick Clegg", "Peter Mandelson", "David Blunkett", "Politics", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Why Baroness Scotland deserves a second chance"},{"date": "2009-09-22T10:06:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Lady Scotland employed Loloahi Tapui, a 26-year-old Tongan, as a maid at her family home in west London.The attorney general thought Tapui, who is married to a British citizen, was entitled to work in the UK, but was forced to sack her last Wednesday after it emerged she had overstayed on a student visa.According to the Mail, Tapui applied for an extension to her student visa in 2004. The application was rejected, meaning she has been living in Britain illegally for the past five years.The UK Border Agency last week announced it would conduct an inquiry after receiving a complaint from an anti-sleaze group.It is embarrassing for Scotland \u2013 as a Home Office minister in 2006, she helped the government to bring in controversial legislation on illegal immigrants.The Immigration, Nationality and Asylum Act tightened the law on those knowingly employing illegal immigrants.The legislation means employers can be punished for unwittingly employing an illegal immigrant if they have not carried out proper checks, including taking a copy of the employee's passport.Employers, particularly small businesses, complained strongly about the regulations when they were introduced on the grounds that they imposed an unreasonable burden on firms.They can go to jail if they knowingly employ an illegal immigrant and, if they employ an illegal immigrant unknowingly, they can be fined up to \u00a310,000.She has been fined \u00a35,000 by the Border Agency, which found she did not knowingly illegally employ Tapui.Gordon Brown said no further action would be taken against her, although the Conservatives called for her to resign.", "tags": ["House of Lords", "Politics", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Q&A: The Lady Scotland controversy"},{"date": "2009-09-24T09:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland, the Attorney General, has done nothing wrong in employing an irregular migrant who has been in the UK for many years. Had she done so knowingly, she could have borne witness to her Catholic beliefs. For it is a key tenet of modern Catholic social teaching that \"illegal immigrants\" \u2013 an inappropriate term, as we'll see \u2013 acquire rights to stay over time, and should be recognised by the law.The principle was stated only the other day by the Cardinal Archbishop of Chicago, Francis George, who is no liberal. The church does not encourage illegal immigration, he said, \"but we should also say you have to respect the people in front of you. If you have neighbours and family members who have been subjected to society financially, socially and religiously for decades, they should be able to live here with security.\" That's why the US bishops are strong advocates of a pathway into citizenship for long-term irregular migrants, of whom there are close to 500,000 in the UK and many millions in the US. Next year, President Obama will be putting forward just such a plan. The state's right to deport erodes over time; the longer a person stays, the stronger the moral claim to remain. Take Marguerite Grimmond, an 80-year-old woman born in the US but resident in the UK from the age of two, who went on a vacation to Australia only to be told, on her return, that she had no right to reside in the UK and faced deportation. The case came to light in June 2007; she was in every sense an illegal immigrant, who knew that she did not have British citizenship, who had evaded immigration controls. Yet she was allowed to regularise her status, because the moral absurdity of forcing her to leave a place where she had lived so long was evident, whatever the legal technicalities. Time confers a moral right to remain because there is something deeply wrong with uprooting people who have put down roots and formed lasting human connections. How long does that take? Most experts, and common sense, put that period at about five years. So does the Catholic church. On 4 May this year, the Catholic bishop in charge of the church's policy on migrants, said in a homily: \"There is clear moral case that undocumented workers who have lived and worked in this country for five years or more should be given the opportunity to build a future in the United Kingdom and continue to contribute to British society.\"That is the period which the London Citizens campaign, Strangers into Citizens \u2013 inspired by the former Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster's 2006 call for a conditional amnesty programme \u2013 argues should be the precondition of a UK regularisation programme. The campaigners have persuaded London's mayor, Boris Johnson, to back the idea, which has been been studied by the London Schools of Economics. The LSE says the mayor's plan would regularise 618,000 people and add \u00a33bn to the UK economy. And it would not act as a green light to illegal immigration. How long has Baroness Scotland's 27-year-old Tongan housekeeper, Loloahi Tapui-Zivancevic, been in the UK? More than five years. She came to the UK legally. She goes to an Anglican church in west London. She is married to a solicitor. She gives every sign of being a rooted, contributing citizen of the UK, and is precisely the kind of person who would be eligible under the mayor's proposals. Not only is it morally wrong to deport her, but she has a powerful case to have her residence recognised in law. But for now, surely, the law's the law, and the Attorney-General is there to uphold it? But there are different kinds of laws. Lady Scotland has caused general outrage by saying her offence is no more than failing to pay the congestion charge \u2013 \"an administrative, technical error\". But she's right. Immigration offences are not criminal but administrative violations. That is why the term \"illegal immigrant\" is absurd. A person cannot be illegal, only a criminal. And an undocumented migrant, despite the best efforts of some tabloids, is not a criminal \u2013 any more than is a person who absent-mindedly breaks the speed limit. And someone who employs an undocumented migrant, believing \u2013 on the paper evidence \u2013 that she has a right to work, is doing nothing remotely wrong. And even if she knowingly did so, as a Catholic, her conscience would be clear. As a lawyer, Baroness Scotland also knows that time erodes the state's power to pursue legal violations. Three to five years is considered the maximum time for enforcing many criminal offences, let alone administrative ones. The notion that foreigners who have put down roots in Britain \u2013 often after waiting more than a decade for their asylum claim to be processed \u2013 can be deported is simply absurd. No one claims that half a million people can be forcibly removed, by this or any other state. The right step, the step advocated by the church of which Lady Scotland is a keen member, is to give them the legal right to stay.If Baroness Scotland can be accused of hypocrisy, it is that she is apologising for what she has done instead of defending it from the best principles in both her faith and the law.", "tags": ["Catholicism", "Immigration and asylum", "Politics", "Labour", "Law", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland shouldn't apologise | Austen Ivereigh"},{"date": "2009-09-24T08:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Baroness Scotland should have said how deeply sorry she was for failing properly to vet her new housekeeper. But, instead, she insisted that she didn't have to be deeply sorry because she hadn't done much wrong. A \u00a35,000 illegal worker fine is apparently like a \u00a360 congestion-charge fine. Which can only mean one of three things. Congestion-charge fines should be \u00a35,000. Illegal worker fines should be \u00a360. Or neither is much money to the attorney general, who has forgotten that, for a lot of people, \u00a360, let alone \u00a35,000, is a big dent in the self- administered housekeeping. They all learned so very little from their expenses drubbing. What on earth can be done with them?", "tags": ["Politics", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Baroness Scotland: What a fine mess | Deborah Orr"},{"date": "2009-09-22T11:51:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "So Gordon Brown has decided not to sack Lady Scotland as the government's senior legal officer despite her being fined \u00a35,000 today for hiring an illegal immigrant.Good. Let's hope that, this time, the prime minister doesn't dither and change his mind under pressure from the stone-throwing tabloids.Scotland, the attorney general, has apologised for hiring Loloahi Tapui as her housekeeper without making adequate checks or keeping copies of the documents she did see.The UK Border Agency accepted that she did not knowingly employ someone whose visa ran out years ago.As I noted here the other day, of the two couples in this tale, three of the four people \u2013 Scotland, her barrister husband and Tapui's British solicitor husband \u2013 are all lawyers who ought to have been more careful to secure her residential status, a relatively easy thing to do for someone with a British spouse.So only the non-lawyer in the case has lost her job. But should Scotland, who helped pass the relevant legislation as a Home Office minister and is the cabinet's legal adviser, lose hers, too?Phone-ins and chatrooms have been crowded since this morning's announcement of the administrative (not criminal) penalty, with people complaining that it's one law for the rich, another for the poor. Is that true in this case? I doubt it.The laws against employing illegal immigrants are designed to deter people who do it systemically \u2013 either in business or their own homes \u2013 to gain cheap, malleable workers who can't complain much.I don't think that motive will have applied to either party here, do you?So what it's really about is whipping up negative feeling about immigrants, legal or not, and the jobs they do in our economy, often because we won't do them ourselves (or at least not for the money on offer).In a free society, immigration rules are always hard to enforce. Labour has been guilty of passing many ineffectual ones: window-dressing as a substitute for effective administration.But too many efforts are made to trip up ministers of all parties and get them sacked for essentially trivial reasons \u2013 the kinds of mistakes people in all classes in our complicated society make.I don't think we can expect the attorney general to have spotted a dodgy passport.Here in Bournemouth, the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Chris Huhne, has called Scotland's position untenable, as has his Tory counterpart, Chris Grayling.The Lib Dem leader, Nick Clegg, sounded more cautious \u2013 good for him. Leave that sort of stuff to the rottweilers.Politicians should be sacked or forced to resign for proper reasons, as Peter Mandelson was once (but not twice) and David Blunkett was on neither occasion. The record is usually mixed.This is not such an occasion. Labour is short of competent lawyers (they make so much money in private practice today). Scotland is a competent female, black lawyer. A second chance is called for. But don't do it again.", "tags": ["House of Lords", "Gordon Brown", "Chris Huhne", "Chris Grayling", "Nick Clegg", "Peter Mandelson", "David Blunkett", "Politics", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Why Baroness Scotland deserves a second chance"},{"date": "2009-09-22T10:06:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Lady Scotland employed Loloahi Tapui, a 26-year-old Tongan, as a maid at her family home in west London.The attorney general thought Tapui, who is married to a British citizen, was entitled to work in the UK, but was forced to sack her last Wednesday after it emerged she had overstayed on a student visa.According to the Mail, Tapui applied for an extension to her student visa in 2004. The application was rejected, meaning she has been living in Britain illegally for the past five years.The UK Border Agency last week announced it would conduct an inquiry after receiving a complaint from an anti-sleaze group.It is embarrassing for Scotland \u2013 as a Home Office minister in 2006, she helped the government to bring in controversial legislation on illegal immigrants.The Immigration, Nationality and Asylum Act tightened the law on those knowingly employing illegal immigrants.The legislation means employers can be punished for unwittingly employing an illegal immigrant if they have not carried out proper checks, including taking a copy of the employee's passport.Employers, particularly small businesses, complained strongly about the regulations when they were introduced on the grounds that they imposed an unreasonable burden on firms.They can go to jail if they knowingly employ an illegal immigrant and, if they employ an illegal immigrant unknowingly, they can be fined up to \u00a310,000.She has been fined \u00a35,000 by the Border Agency, which found she did not knowingly illegally employ Tapui.Gordon Brown said no further action would be taken against her, although the Conservatives called for her to resign.", "tags": ["House of Lords", "Politics", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Lady Scotland"], "title": "Q&A: The Lady Scotland controversy"},{"date": "2009-09-17T17:16:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland today unveiled the world's first \"carbon budget\" to link greenhouse gas emissions with government spending, revealing that its plans will emit the equivalent of four coal-fired power stations next year.The Scottish government has estimated that its spending next year on \u00a333bn worth of core services such as hospitals, schools, roads, local government and farming, will lead to the release of 11.5m tonnes of carbon dioxide.The \"carbon budget\" is being claimed as another world first by ministers in Edinburgh, after the Scottish parliament set the first legally binding CO2 reductions target of 42% by 2020 in a climate act in June. The UK Treasury has no plans to follow suit but officials in the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs are closely watching the Scottish government's efforts.John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, said these estimates would be used eventually to test the environmental impact of government spending, allowing ministers to weigh up individual policies and award contracts on how much CO2 they would emit.Officials said the goal would be to use carbon emissions to help decide which contract or policy to follow, alongside its cost and quality.\"It is vital to have analysis available to help inform critical decisions on how to take appropriate action during these challenging economic times,\" Swinney said. \"It will form part of an important discussion taking place across our nation about the carbon implications of activity across the economy and across society.\"Environment groups have applauded the new measurements, but urged ministers to introduce much more detailed assessments of each spending decision, particularly on transport and housing. Swinney has yet to set a target date for detailed measurements.Elizabeth Leighton, of WWF Scotland, said ministers had to make that a priority. \"They urgently need to apply this appraisal to individual projects and individual policies, so that we know early on the carbon implications of their decision-making, so we can choose the low-carbon option.\"Patrick Harvie, the Scottish Green party leader, was scathing about the government's failure to include car and lorry emissions, which equal 10.5Mt, from the section on roads in the carbon assessment. The budget said spending on new motorways and trunk roads would only release 213,000tns.\"Are we really to believe that the total carbon impacts from roads will be just half that of the Scottish public pensions agency?\" Harvie said.Environment campaigners remain highly critical of many Scottish National party policies, particularly on transport and housing, arguing they undermine the minority SNP government's commitment to renewable energy. The SNP has authorised extending the M74 motorway through southern Glasgow, has promised new roads, backs a new coal-fired power station at Hunterston, supports expanding several airports and has relaxed planning laws for opencast coal mines. Scotland also has weaker planning laws on energy efficiency for new homes than apply in England.Swinney also announced that a \u00a3170m rail link to Glasgow airport had been cancelled, to help meet a \u00a3500m drop in Treasury funding next year due to UK-wide spending cuts. The SNP also dropped a \u00a3500m rail link to Edinburgh airport two years ago.The budget estimates that the \u00a311bn spending on health services in Scotland would release 3.5Mt of CO2; local council spending of \u00a311.6bn would lead to 4.3Mt of CO2; finance and sustainable growth spending of \u00a34.9bn would result in 1.7Mt of CO2.Agriculture and forestry, which only has a budget of \u00a3587m, would release the greatest amount of CO2 for every pound spend, at 0.56Mt of CO2, partly because of emissions from livestock.Swinney and his officials admit the current carbon budget is based on estimates and will be refined over coming years. Although it fails to includes \"secondary emissions\" such as car usage of roads, it does include the indirect emissions of public sector workers from their own lifestyles and commuting and emissions from the supply chain.The total estimate accounts for only 14% of Scotland's total carbon emissions, and the devolved government only has control over 30% of those total emissions. The UK government and European Union oversees the policies and areas for the remaining 70%, such as fuel duty, air taxes and funding green energy investments.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland unveils first carbon budget linking emissions with spending"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Labour government's white paper proposing greater tax powers for the Scottish parliament has been dismissed as an exercise in pre-election window dressing. For a start, it will never be implemented because there is not enough time for legislation to pass Westminster before the general election. It looks like a pre-election spoiler before the SNP government publishes its bill for an independence referendum on St Andrews Day. But that doesn't mean it is worthless.The Scottish secretary, Jim Murphy, is clearly offering Scottish voters a choice: vote nationalist and get an independence referendum few appear to want \u2013 recent polls suggest barely a third of Scottish voters favour independence \u2013 or vote for Labour and get a better devolution, a Scottish parliament with extra powers, based on the proposals in the Calman commission report published earlier this year.The Calman commission was set up by the main opposition parties in Scotland nearly two years ago as the answer to the new SNP government's \"national conversation\" on its plans for an independence referendum. Sir Kenneth Calman, the former chief medical officer for Scotland, held hearings for more than a year and came to the conclusion that if the Scottish parliament is to be responsible and accountable, it should raise at least a proportion of the money it spends on services. The Scottish government has about $33bn to play with, thanks to the Barnett formula, which calculates increases in spending on a per capita basis. This bloc grant arrangement is unsound, according to Calman, because it encourages politicians to spend without having to go to the people to seek endorsement for raising the tax revenues to meet spending decisions.Critics of Barnett, especially in the UK Conservative party, have long argued that this bloc grant is a licence for MSPs to vote for measures like free school meals, free higher education and free prescriptions which are paid for by the English taxpayer. This is not true, of course, since any spending pledges made by the Scottish government have to be financed by savings elsewhere in the Scottish budget. The Barnett formula does not automatically increase the bloc grant to pay for manifesto pledges.However, Calman accepted the argument that there needed to be more transparency in the arrangements and that spending should be seen more closely to match taxation, so he proposed to split income tax between the Scottish parliament and a revised Barnett formula. He also called for the Scottish parliament to have control over stamp duty on house sales, land tax and possibly other taxes such as air passenger duty. His proposals were criticised by economists for being incoherent and in many ways they are. Why make the Scottish parliament only half accountable by letting it raise half of income tax? What about oil revenues? Why not sales taxes?There may indeed be problems with the mechanisms for taxation proposed by Calman, but the importance of the report is that it has built a political consensus around a proposal which can only lead to a form of federalism. The Scottish parliament already has primary legislative powers over most domestic policy \u2013 except for a few anomalies that Calman said should be addressed by looking at giving the Scottish parliament powers over broadcasting, firearms, energy policy and drugs.If Holyrood now were given substantial taxation powers we would be living in a new UK, which may be why the SNP has been rather more favourably disposed to Calman. It realises that once the principle is established that Scotland should raise the money it spends, then the logical conclusion can only be a form of fiscal federalism and greater power for the Scottish parliament.So why is Jim Murphy, the ultra-unionist Scottish secretary, so keen on implementing these measures? Well, historically it has always been Labour that has moved home rule on to the next stage. It was Labour that led the Scottish constitutional convention in the 1980s which campaigned for a Scottish parliament \u2013 the SNP boycotted it. It was a Labour government that passed the Scotland Act which set up Holyrood, so it should be no surprise that Labour is now heading a drive to extend devolution to the new level. Labour has had to find a way to undermine the success of the SNP in the Scottish parliament, and it has done so by the traditional means of offering more power within a reformed union.The question now is \u2013 what will the Tories do if they win the general election?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Tax and spending", "Tax", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Politics", "UK news", "Money"], "title": "Labour's taxing tactics in Scotland | Iain Macwhirter"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Labour government's white paper proposing greater tax powers for the Scottish parliament has been dismissed as an exercise in pre-election window dressing. For a start, it will never be implemented because there is not enough time for legislation to pass Westminster before the general election. It looks like a pre-election spoiler before the SNP government publishes its bill for an independence referendum on St Andrews Day. But that doesn't mean it is worthless.The Scottish secretary, Jim Murphy, is clearly offering Scottish voters a choice: vote nationalist and get an independence referendum few appear to want \u2013 recent polls suggest barely a third of Scottish voters favour independence \u2013 or vote for Labour and get a better devolution, a Scottish parliament with extra powers, based on the proposals in the Calman commission report published earlier this year.The Calman commission was set up by the main opposition parties in Scotland nearly two years ago as the answer to the new SNP government's \"national conversation\" on its plans for an independence referendum. Sir Kenneth Calman, the former chief medical officer for Scotland, held hearings for more than a year and came to the conclusion that if the Scottish parliament is to be responsible and accountable, it should raise at least a proportion of the money it spends on services. The Scottish government has about $33bn to play with, thanks to the Barnett formula, which calculates increases in spending on a per capita basis. This bloc grant arrangement is unsound, according to Calman, because it encourages politicians to spend without having to go to the people to seek endorsement for raising the tax revenues to meet spending decisions.Critics of Barnett, especially in the UK Conservative party, have long argued that this bloc grant is a licence for MSPs to vote for measures like free school meals, free higher education and free prescriptions which are paid for by the English taxpayer. This is not true, of course, since any spending pledges made by the Scottish government have to be financed by savings elsewhere in the Scottish budget. The Barnett formula does not automatically increase the bloc grant to pay for manifesto pledges.However, Calman accepted the argument that there needed to be more transparency in the arrangements and that spending should be seen more closely to match taxation, so he proposed to split income tax between the Scottish parliament and a revised Barnett formula. He also called for the Scottish parliament to have control over stamp duty on house sales, land tax and possibly other taxes such as air passenger duty. His proposals were criticised by economists for being incoherent and in many ways they are. Why make the Scottish parliament only half accountable by letting it raise half of income tax? What about oil revenues? Why not sales taxes?There may indeed be problems with the mechanisms for taxation proposed by Calman, but the importance of the report is that it has built a political consensus around a proposal which can only lead to a form of federalism. The Scottish parliament already has primary legislative powers over most domestic policy \u2013 except for a few anomalies that Calman said should be addressed by looking at giving the Scottish parliament powers over broadcasting, firearms, energy policy and drugs.If Holyrood now were given substantial taxation powers we would be living in a new UK, which may be why the SNP has been rather more favourably disposed to Calman. It realises that once the principle is established that Scotland should raise the money it spends, then the logical conclusion can only be a form of fiscal federalism and greater power for the Scottish parliament.So why is Jim Murphy, the ultra-unionist Scottish secretary, so keen on implementing these measures? Well, historically it has always been Labour that has moved home rule on to the next stage. It was Labour that led the Scottish constitutional convention in the 1980s which campaigned for a Scottish parliament \u2013 the SNP boycotted it. It was a Labour government that passed the Scotland Act which set up Holyrood, so it should be no surprise that Labour is now heading a drive to extend devolution to the new level. Labour has had to find a way to undermine the success of the SNP in the Scottish parliament, and it has done so by the traditional means of offering more power within a reformed union.The question now is \u2013 what will the Tories do if they win the general election?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Tax and spending", "Tax", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Politics", "UK news", "Money"], "title": "Labour's taxing tactics in Scotland | Iain Macwhirter"},{"date": "2009-12-07T00:20:21Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Keen to pursue a career in political risk analysis, Alan Clements originally had no interest in going into television, describing TV as \"just something that was in the corner\". That attitude did not last. Clements took a Christmas job as a runner in the BBC's Glasgow offices and went on to make a fortune from creating a Scottish \"super-indie\" production company before selling it to an even bigger indie. He joined STV, Scotland's main commercial network, a year ago as the head of content, but not before a headline-making court case.It would be unfair to say that controversy follows Clements around, but it has been an eventful year. STV has dropped some ITV mainstays from its schedule, including Doc Martin and The Bill. It didn't even screen Wuthering Heights, opting instead for a repeat of a 2002 police drama starring Daniela Nardini and beating the adaptation's audience share. The company is also engaged in a trio of legal disputes with ITV, which supplies about 90% of its programmes, over programming fees, digital media rights and advertising sales.In August, ITV's chief operating officer, John Cresswell, claimed STV was \"damaging the ITV network and its ABC1 profile\". Claim and counter-claim are heading for the courts. Is it fair to say that STV is trying to devolve from ITV? Clements, who is still keenly interested in politics, pauses a moment before replying: \"I think it is very fair. The company fundamentally faced a crossroads. You could either have become ITV in Scotland and just taken all the ITV schedule apart from local news. I'm really proud and absolutely unrepentant that we have gone down the road of STV being the national broadcaster of Scotland.\" Thus soaps are sacrosanct, Murderland with Robbie Coltrane is in, but Al Murray's Pub Landlord is definitely out, because it \"goes down like a cup of cold sick in Scotland, a cockney landlord shouting at an audience\".And STV did not screen Collision, ITV's big drama success last month, which was stripped across five weeknights at 9pm. Instead, it asked its five million-strong audience to search for The Greatest Scot, with five documentaries across the week, accompanied by a debate and an online vote. Robert Burns was revealed as the greatest Scot in a St Andrew's Day special. While that beat ITV's offering in terms of audience share, the five factual programmes were not as popular as Collision, which starred the Scottish actor Douglas Henshall \u2013 which STV didn't know when it decided to opt out. Clements refuses to admit the decision was a mistake, adding \"it was a lesson learnt\". He says the policy is \"not about cost\", in spite of STV receiving 6% of its budget back when it opts out of ITV programming, but is rather \"a real statement of intent for us\".STV matters because it is attempting to reverse the 20-year destruction of ITV regional production centres across Britain in places such as Norwich and Birmingham, he says. \"I don't think we want that and I don't think our audience wants that.\" If the government grants STV independent producer status next year, it will make it easier to add to its first BBC commission, the daytime programme Antiques Road Trip.Amazing showIt is clear that Clements aims to transform STV. \"The slogan is from Scotland to the world, and it is not a sense of everything has to have a kilt in it. It is about being a producer that produces for me, for Scotland, for the UK and internationally.\" He says STV is proud to be part of the network. \"Who could not watch X Factor on Saturday night and think that was an amazing show, although the Scottish guy was really rubbish, slightly disappointingly.\" Combining those hit shows with local product is the \"best of both worlds\".Back to the legal battle. ITV claims STV owes it \u00a338m in unpaid programming bills and that STV is attempting to opt out of programming agreements retrospectively. In turn, STV claims ITV has withheld money it is due as part of its ad sales agreement. The third legal fight is about digital media rights. Yet Clements still has to deal with the Sassenachs down at the ITV network centre on a weekly basis, saying that relationships are \"on a professional and personal level very cordial\". He says he gets on well with Peter Fincham, the ITV director of television, who also jumped from an independent production company to a major broadcaster.But, while Clements thinks \"people have never felt more Scottish\", proud newspapers, including the Herald and the Scotsman, have suffered circulation slumps. In September the Daily Record sold about 50,000 copies fewer than the Scottish Sun. Figures from that month showed that STV's audience share decline has accelerated this year, falling to 16.9% for the first 34 weeks of 2009, from 19.1% over the same period last year. It is below ITV1's audience share, which fell from 18.3% to 17.3%.STV, which owns the two ITV franchises in Scotland, believes it can fight the trend for regional consolidation in the industry. Hence it wants to steal a march on the BBC and create its own version of a Scottish Six, a one-hour news bulletin produced entirely in Scotland that replaces the two half-hour bulletins of Scottish and national news. It wants to combine the 30-minute STV News and ITN's ITV News into a single one-hour news bulletin with 10 minutes of ultra-local news from centres including Dundee, Perth, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.Clements sells this as a virtue, but a separate 30-minute local bulletin based in Aberdeen would be axed to make room for the new programme and staff fear job losses in Aberdeen, Inverness and Dundee. And its fate is inextricably linked to the government's pilot schemes for independently funded news consortia to replace ITV regional news, one of which is for the Scottish Borders.Clements maintains that when STV airs quality homegrown shows it equals or beats ITV's offerings. But audiences can desert it dramatically, such as when it opted out of Marple in September for a repeat of the surfing movie Blue Crush. A disastrous 112,000 viewers watched, putting STV last out of the five terrestrial channels. The Scottish Sun asked \"Has STV lost its Marples?\". There are also questions of quality. One newspaper derided STV's Made in Scotland, presented by the Taggart actor John Michie, as a \"no-expense-incurred travelogue\".Clements is pushing ahead with The Scots At War, another hint of the direction that STV is moving in, not so much for the nationalistic subject matter \u2013 part of it will focus on the Black Watch \u2013 but because it is co-produced by the History Channel. If the stalwart detective drama Taggart is axed by ITV, STV hopes it can survive with co-producers.Over lunch, Clements is cheerful, charming and fizzing with ideas, so it is surprising to learn that colleagues once labelled him a \"little weasel\" and worse in a court case. It is not overstating it to say that his decision to jump ship in March 2007 to STV went down badly at RDF, the super-indie production company where he worked, particularly when Clements tried to take some projects with him. He and his wife, the Newsnight presenter Kirsty Wark, had created Scotland's first \"super-indie\" producer, when they merged their production company, Wark Clements, with the fellow indie Ideal World to form IWC. RDF bought it for \u00a314m in 2005 and Clements agreed to stay for three years, pocketing \u00a32m in cash and shares. But then he announced his intention to up sticks for STV.Constructive dismissalThere was a court case, a personal and professional nadir, during which evidence revealed that he got his wife's personal assistant to hack into a colleague's email account. Clements sued for constructive dismissal, lost the case and had to pay about \u00a3450,000 in legal costs. He appealed but a peace deal was struck with RDF that meant that Clements could start at STV three months earlier. His settlement that allowed him to sign on at STV also bars him from discussing it.No profile of Clements can be complete without a question about his wife. How does he cope with being referred to as Mr Kirsty Wark? He says they now lead totally separate professional lives. \"When I am running content at STV nobody asks me 'what does Kirsty think of it?'.\"Some weeks, he adds, they say goodbye to each other on a Monday morning and don't see each other until Friday. \"We get a lot of 'we are the power couple' but when you are sitting at home on a Saturday night having a beer and watching X Factor you don't feel the most powerful couple in Scotland.\"CVAge 48Education Stranraer Academy; University of GlasgowCareer 1989-1991 freelance journalist 1990 founder and managing director, Wark Clements & Co 2004 chairman and director of specialist factual, IWC Media 2006 creative director, IWC Media 2008 director of content, STV", "tags": ["STV Group", "Television industry", "ITV plc", "BBC", "Independent production companies", "The Sun", "ITN", "Peter Fincham", "The X Factor", "Television", "Television & radio", "Media"], "title": "Stephen Brook interviews Alan Clements, the head of content at STV"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Labour government's white paper proposing greater tax powers for the Scottish parliament has been dismissed as an exercise in pre-election window dressing. For a start, it will never be implemented because there is not enough time for legislation to pass Westminster before the general election. It looks like a pre-election spoiler before the SNP government publishes its bill for an independence referendum on St Andrews Day. But that doesn't mean it is worthless.The Scottish secretary, Jim Murphy, is clearly offering Scottish voters a choice: vote nationalist and get an independence referendum few appear to want \u2013 recent polls suggest barely a third of Scottish voters favour independence \u2013 or vote for Labour and get a better devolution, a Scottish parliament with extra powers, based on the proposals in the Calman commission report published earlier this year.The Calman commission was set up by the main opposition parties in Scotland nearly two years ago as the answer to the new SNP government's \"national conversation\" on its plans for an independence referendum. Sir Kenneth Calman, the former chief medical officer for Scotland, held hearings for more than a year and came to the conclusion that if the Scottish parliament is to be responsible and accountable, it should raise at least a proportion of the money it spends on services. The Scottish government has about $33bn to play with, thanks to the Barnett formula, which calculates increases in spending on a per capita basis. This bloc grant arrangement is unsound, according to Calman, because it encourages politicians to spend without having to go to the people to seek endorsement for raising the tax revenues to meet spending decisions.Critics of Barnett, especially in the UK Conservative party, have long argued that this bloc grant is a licence for MSPs to vote for measures like free school meals, free higher education and free prescriptions which are paid for by the English taxpayer. This is not true, of course, since any spending pledges made by the Scottish government have to be financed by savings elsewhere in the Scottish budget. The Barnett formula does not automatically increase the bloc grant to pay for manifesto pledges.However, Calman accepted the argument that there needed to be more transparency in the arrangements and that spending should be seen more closely to match taxation, so he proposed to split income tax between the Scottish parliament and a revised Barnett formula. He also called for the Scottish parliament to have control over stamp duty on house sales, land tax and possibly other taxes such as air passenger duty. His proposals were criticised by economists for being incoherent and in many ways they are. Why make the Scottish parliament only half accountable by letting it raise half of income tax? What about oil revenues? Why not sales taxes?There may indeed be problems with the mechanisms for taxation proposed by Calman, but the importance of the report is that it has built a political consensus around a proposal which can only lead to a form of federalism. The Scottish parliament already has primary legislative powers over most domestic policy \u2013 except for a few anomalies that Calman said should be addressed by looking at giving the Scottish parliament powers over broadcasting, firearms, energy policy and drugs.If Holyrood now were given substantial taxation powers we would be living in a new UK, which may be why the SNP has been rather more favourably disposed to Calman. It realises that once the principle is established that Scotland should raise the money it spends, then the logical conclusion can only be a form of fiscal federalism and greater power for the Scottish parliament.So why is Jim Murphy, the ultra-unionist Scottish secretary, so keen on implementing these measures? Well, historically it has always been Labour that has moved home rule on to the next stage. It was Labour that led the Scottish constitutional convention in the 1980s which campaigned for a Scottish parliament \u2013 the SNP boycotted it. It was a Labour government that passed the Scotland Act which set up Holyrood, so it should be no surprise that Labour is now heading a drive to extend devolution to the new level. Labour has had to find a way to undermine the success of the SNP in the Scottish parliament, and it has done so by the traditional means of offering more power within a reformed union.The question now is \u2013 what will the Tories do if they win the general election?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Tax and spending", "Tax", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Politics", "UK news", "Money"], "title": "Labour's taxing tactics in Scotland | Iain Macwhirter"},{"date": "2009-12-07T00:20:21Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Keen to pursue a career in political risk analysis, Alan Clements originally had no interest in going into television, describing TV as \"just something that was in the corner\". That attitude did not last. Clements took a Christmas job as a runner in the BBC's Glasgow offices and went on to make a fortune from creating a Scottish \"super-indie\" production company before selling it to an even bigger indie. He joined STV, Scotland's main commercial network, a year ago as the head of content, but not before a headline-making court case.It would be unfair to say that controversy follows Clements around, but it has been an eventful year. STV has dropped some ITV mainstays from its schedule, including Doc Martin and The Bill. It didn't even screen Wuthering Heights, opting instead for a repeat of a 2002 police drama starring Daniela Nardini and beating the adaptation's audience share. The company is also engaged in a trio of legal disputes with ITV, which supplies about 90% of its programmes, over programming fees, digital media rights and advertising sales.In August, ITV's chief operating officer, John Cresswell, claimed STV was \"damaging the ITV network and its ABC1 profile\". Claim and counter-claim are heading for the courts. Is it fair to say that STV is trying to devolve from ITV? Clements, who is still keenly interested in politics, pauses a moment before replying: \"I think it is very fair. The company fundamentally faced a crossroads. You could either have become ITV in Scotland and just taken all the ITV schedule apart from local news. I'm really proud and absolutely unrepentant that we have gone down the road of STV being the national broadcaster of Scotland.\" Thus soaps are sacrosanct, Murderland with Robbie Coltrane is in, but Al Murray's Pub Landlord is definitely out, because it \"goes down like a cup of cold sick in Scotland, a cockney landlord shouting at an audience\".And STV did not screen Collision, ITV's big drama success last month, which was stripped across five weeknights at 9pm. Instead, it asked its five million-strong audience to search for The Greatest Scot, with five documentaries across the week, accompanied by a debate and an online vote. Robert Burns was revealed as the greatest Scot in a St Andrew's Day special. While that beat ITV's offering in terms of audience share, the five factual programmes were not as popular as Collision, which starred the Scottish actor Douglas Henshall \u2013 which STV didn't know when it decided to opt out. Clements refuses to admit the decision was a mistake, adding \"it was a lesson learnt\". He says the policy is \"not about cost\", in spite of STV receiving 6% of its budget back when it opts out of ITV programming, but is rather \"a real statement of intent for us\".STV matters because it is attempting to reverse the 20-year destruction of ITV regional production centres across Britain in places such as Norwich and Birmingham, he says. \"I don't think we want that and I don't think our audience wants that.\" If the government grants STV independent producer status next year, it will make it easier to add to its first BBC commission, the daytime programme Antiques Road Trip.Amazing showIt is clear that Clements aims to transform STV. \"The slogan is from Scotland to the world, and it is not a sense of everything has to have a kilt in it. It is about being a producer that produces for me, for Scotland, for the UK and internationally.\" He says STV is proud to be part of the network. \"Who could not watch X Factor on Saturday night and think that was an amazing show, although the Scottish guy was really rubbish, slightly disappointingly.\" Combining those hit shows with local product is the \"best of both worlds\".Back to the legal battle. ITV claims STV owes it \u00a338m in unpaid programming bills and that STV is attempting to opt out of programming agreements retrospectively. In turn, STV claims ITV has withheld money it is due as part of its ad sales agreement. The third legal fight is about digital media rights. Yet Clements still has to deal with the Sassenachs down at the ITV network centre on a weekly basis, saying that relationships are \"on a professional and personal level very cordial\". He says he gets on well with Peter Fincham, the ITV director of television, who also jumped from an independent production company to a major broadcaster.But, while Clements thinks \"people have never felt more Scottish\", proud newspapers, including the Herald and the Scotsman, have suffered circulation slumps. In September the Daily Record sold about 50,000 copies fewer than the Scottish Sun. Figures from that month showed that STV's audience share decline has accelerated this year, falling to 16.9% for the first 34 weeks of 2009, from 19.1% over the same period last year. It is below ITV1's audience share, which fell from 18.3% to 17.3%.STV, which owns the two ITV franchises in Scotland, believes it can fight the trend for regional consolidation in the industry. Hence it wants to steal a march on the BBC and create its own version of a Scottish Six, a one-hour news bulletin produced entirely in Scotland that replaces the two half-hour bulletins of Scottish and national news. It wants to combine the 30-minute STV News and ITN's ITV News into a single one-hour news bulletin with 10 minutes of ultra-local news from centres including Dundee, Perth, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.Clements sells this as a virtue, but a separate 30-minute local bulletin based in Aberdeen would be axed to make room for the new programme and staff fear job losses in Aberdeen, Inverness and Dundee. And its fate is inextricably linked to the government's pilot schemes for independently funded news consortia to replace ITV regional news, one of which is for the Scottish Borders.Clements maintains that when STV airs quality homegrown shows it equals or beats ITV's offerings. But audiences can desert it dramatically, such as when it opted out of Marple in September for a repeat of the surfing movie Blue Crush. A disastrous 112,000 viewers watched, putting STV last out of the five terrestrial channels. The Scottish Sun asked \"Has STV lost its Marples?\". There are also questions of quality. One newspaper derided STV's Made in Scotland, presented by the Taggart actor John Michie, as a \"no-expense-incurred travelogue\".Clements is pushing ahead with The Scots At War, another hint of the direction that STV is moving in, not so much for the nationalistic subject matter \u2013 part of it will focus on the Black Watch \u2013 but because it is co-produced by the History Channel. If the stalwart detective drama Taggart is axed by ITV, STV hopes it can survive with co-producers.Over lunch, Clements is cheerful, charming and fizzing with ideas, so it is surprising to learn that colleagues once labelled him a \"little weasel\" and worse in a court case. It is not overstating it to say that his decision to jump ship in March 2007 to STV went down badly at RDF, the super-indie production company where he worked, particularly when Clements tried to take some projects with him. He and his wife, the Newsnight presenter Kirsty Wark, had created Scotland's first \"super-indie\" producer, when they merged their production company, Wark Clements, with the fellow indie Ideal World to form IWC. RDF bought it for \u00a314m in 2005 and Clements agreed to stay for three years, pocketing \u00a32m in cash and shares. But then he announced his intention to up sticks for STV.Constructive dismissalThere was a court case, a personal and professional nadir, during which evidence revealed that he got his wife's personal assistant to hack into a colleague's email account. Clements sued for constructive dismissal, lost the case and had to pay about \u00a3450,000 in legal costs. He appealed but a peace deal was struck with RDF that meant that Clements could start at STV three months earlier. His settlement that allowed him to sign on at STV also bars him from discussing it.No profile of Clements can be complete without a question about his wife. How does he cope with being referred to as Mr Kirsty Wark? He says they now lead totally separate professional lives. \"When I am running content at STV nobody asks me 'what does Kirsty think of it?'.\"Some weeks, he adds, they say goodbye to each other on a Monday morning and don't see each other until Friday. \"We get a lot of 'we are the power couple' but when you are sitting at home on a Saturday night having a beer and watching X Factor you don't feel the most powerful couple in Scotland.\"CVAge 48Education Stranraer Academy; University of GlasgowCareer 1989-1991 freelance journalist 1990 founder and managing director, Wark Clements & Co 2004 chairman and director of specialist factual, IWC Media 2006 creative director, IWC Media 2008 director of content, STV", "tags": ["STV Group", "Television industry", "ITV plc", "BBC", "Independent production companies", "The Sun", "ITN", "Peter Fincham", "The X Factor", "Television", "Television & radio", "Media"], "title": "Stephen Brook interviews Alan Clements, the head of content at STV"},{"date": "2009-12-04T09:33:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish motorists pay significantly less than their English counterparts for car insurance, according to research published today.Price comparison website moneysupermarket.com analysed almost 1m motor insurance quotes over 12 months and found that Scotland has seven of the 10 cheapest areas in the UK for car insurance.Truro is named as the best place to live for the cheapest insurance quotes, while Penzance and Bury St Edmunds were the only only other places outside Scotland to make the list.The research found that residents in parts of Birmingham and Manchester pay the most to insure their vehicle. Areas in both cities accounted for six of the 10 most expensive places to base your car, and motorists in Manchester could find their premiums around \u00a3500 or 126% more expensive than those in Scotland.Liverpool, which previously had the dubious honour of being the worst place to base a car for insurance purposes, has just one area on the list.Steve Sweeney, head of motor insurance at moneysupermarket.com, said: \"An array of factors can determine the price you will pay for car insurance, from crime and population levels in your area to where you park your vehicle. If your area is classified as 'high risk', insurers who don't assess motor insurance on an individual basis may adopt a blanket approach and many motorists could find their insurance is quite high to compensate for this.\"If premium costs were evaluated on a case-by-case basis, many motorists would receive quotes at a better price to match their individual circumstances.\"\u00a3356, TR1, Truro, Cornwall\u00a3375, KY12, Dunfermline, Scotland\u00a3380, KY6, Glenrothes, Scotland\u00a3380, DD5, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3381, AB15, Aberdeen, Scotland\u00a3383, IP33, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk\u00a3383, FK3, Grangemouth, Scotland\u00a3385, IV30, Elgin, Scotland\u00a3386, TR18, Penzance, Cornwall\u00a3386, DD2, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3873, M13, Ardwick/Longsight/Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester\u00a3840, B10, Small Heath, Birmingham\u00a3821, M8, Crumpsall/Cheetham Hill, Manchester\u00a3820, L7, Edge Hill/Fairfield/Kensington, Liverpool\u00a3819, BD8, Girlington/Manningham/Lower Grange, Bradford\u00a3819, B11, Sparkhill/Tyseley, Birmingham\u00a3814, B12, Balsall Heath, Birmingham\u00a3810, B8, Washwood Heath/Ward End/Saltley, Birmingham\u00a3809, E12, Manor Park, London\u00a3805, BT12, Falls, BelfastSource: moneysupermarket.com. Quotes based on a sample of 988,742, taken between September 2008 and August 2009.\u2022 Always shop around at renewal time. Don't assume your current provider is giving you the best renewal quote. Look at several car insurance comparison sites such as Comparethemarket.com, moneysupermarket.com and the Guardian's own to see what you can save.\u2022 Buy online. Many car insurers offer discounts to customers that shop on the web.\u2022 Reduce your mileage. When applying for insurance you have to estimate the number of miles you will do each year. If you aren't travelling much you usually pay less.\u2022 You'll get a better deal if you can reduce risk of the car being damaged while you're not using it. Keep the car off the road at night in a garage or on a drive to cut your premiums.\u2022 Make sure you have an alarm and immobiliser.\u2022 Pick a car with a smaller engine. The bigger and faster the vehicle the more it will cost to insure.\u2022 Up the excess. Agreeing to pay a higher excess, such as \u00a3500 instead of \u00a3100, can reduce your premiums. Don't forget you will need to pay this in the event of a claim, so be sure you can afford it.\u2022 Add an older driver. Young men adding their mothers to their policies have seen big savings as a result. Don't be tempted to put the policy in their name though. This is called fronting and could invalidate your insurance.\u2022 Make sure you get adequate cover. As you look for the lowest price, don't be tempted to scrap things you really need. Skipping extras you can't do without \u2013 such as legal fees cover \u2013 will be a false economy if you need to claim.", "tags": ["Car insurance", "Motoring", "Insurance", "Consumer affairs", "Money", "UK news", "Manchester", "Greater Manchester"], "title": "Want cheaper car insurance? Head to Scotland"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Labour government's white paper proposing greater tax powers for the Scottish parliament has been dismissed as an exercise in pre-election window dressing. For a start, it will never be implemented because there is not enough time for legislation to pass Westminster before the general election. It looks like a pre-election spoiler before the SNP government publishes its bill for an independence referendum on St Andrews Day. But that doesn't mean it is worthless.The Scottish secretary, Jim Murphy, is clearly offering Scottish voters a choice: vote nationalist and get an independence referendum few appear to want \u2013 recent polls suggest barely a third of Scottish voters favour independence \u2013 or vote for Labour and get a better devolution, a Scottish parliament with extra powers, based on the proposals in the Calman commission report published earlier this year.The Calman commission was set up by the main opposition parties in Scotland nearly two years ago as the answer to the new SNP government's \"national conversation\" on its plans for an independence referendum. Sir Kenneth Calman, the former chief medical officer for Scotland, held hearings for more than a year and came to the conclusion that if the Scottish parliament is to be responsible and accountable, it should raise at least a proportion of the money it spends on services. The Scottish government has about $33bn to play with, thanks to the Barnett formula, which calculates increases in spending on a per capita basis. This bloc grant arrangement is unsound, according to Calman, because it encourages politicians to spend without having to go to the people to seek endorsement for raising the tax revenues to meet spending decisions.Critics of Barnett, especially in the UK Conservative party, have long argued that this bloc grant is a licence for MSPs to vote for measures like free school meals, free higher education and free prescriptions which are paid for by the English taxpayer. This is not true, of course, since any spending pledges made by the Scottish government have to be financed by savings elsewhere in the Scottish budget. The Barnett formula does not automatically increase the bloc grant to pay for manifesto pledges.However, Calman accepted the argument that there needed to be more transparency in the arrangements and that spending should be seen more closely to match taxation, so he proposed to split income tax between the Scottish parliament and a revised Barnett formula. He also called for the Scottish parliament to have control over stamp duty on house sales, land tax and possibly other taxes such as air passenger duty. His proposals were criticised by economists for being incoherent and in many ways they are. Why make the Scottish parliament only half accountable by letting it raise half of income tax? What about oil revenues? Why not sales taxes?There may indeed be problems with the mechanisms for taxation proposed by Calman, but the importance of the report is that it has built a political consensus around a proposal which can only lead to a form of federalism. The Scottish parliament already has primary legislative powers over most domestic policy \u2013 except for a few anomalies that Calman said should be addressed by looking at giving the Scottish parliament powers over broadcasting, firearms, energy policy and drugs.If Holyrood now were given substantial taxation powers we would be living in a new UK, which may be why the SNP has been rather more favourably disposed to Calman. It realises that once the principle is established that Scotland should raise the money it spends, then the logical conclusion can only be a form of fiscal federalism and greater power for the Scottish parliament.So why is Jim Murphy, the ultra-unionist Scottish secretary, so keen on implementing these measures? Well, historically it has always been Labour that has moved home rule on to the next stage. It was Labour that led the Scottish constitutional convention in the 1980s which campaigned for a Scottish parliament \u2013 the SNP boycotted it. It was a Labour government that passed the Scotland Act which set up Holyrood, so it should be no surprise that Labour is now heading a drive to extend devolution to the new level. Labour has had to find a way to undermine the success of the SNP in the Scottish parliament, and it has done so by the traditional means of offering more power within a reformed union.The question now is \u2013 what will the Tories do if they win the general election?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Tax and spending", "Tax", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Politics", "UK news", "Money"], "title": "Labour's taxing tactics in Scotland | Iain Macwhirter"},{"date": "2009-12-07T00:20:21Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Keen to pursue a career in political risk analysis, Alan Clements originally had no interest in going into television, describing TV as \"just something that was in the corner\". That attitude did not last. Clements took a Christmas job as a runner in the BBC's Glasgow offices and went on to make a fortune from creating a Scottish \"super-indie\" production company before selling it to an even bigger indie. He joined STV, Scotland's main commercial network, a year ago as the head of content, but not before a headline-making court case.It would be unfair to say that controversy follows Clements around, but it has been an eventful year. STV has dropped some ITV mainstays from its schedule, including Doc Martin and The Bill. It didn't even screen Wuthering Heights, opting instead for a repeat of a 2002 police drama starring Daniela Nardini and beating the adaptation's audience share. The company is also engaged in a trio of legal disputes with ITV, which supplies about 90% of its programmes, over programming fees, digital media rights and advertising sales.In August, ITV's chief operating officer, John Cresswell, claimed STV was \"damaging the ITV network and its ABC1 profile\". Claim and counter-claim are heading for the courts. Is it fair to say that STV is trying to devolve from ITV? Clements, who is still keenly interested in politics, pauses a moment before replying: \"I think it is very fair. The company fundamentally faced a crossroads. You could either have become ITV in Scotland and just taken all the ITV schedule apart from local news. I'm really proud and absolutely unrepentant that we have gone down the road of STV being the national broadcaster of Scotland.\" Thus soaps are sacrosanct, Murderland with Robbie Coltrane is in, but Al Murray's Pub Landlord is definitely out, because it \"goes down like a cup of cold sick in Scotland, a cockney landlord shouting at an audience\".And STV did not screen Collision, ITV's big drama success last month, which was stripped across five weeknights at 9pm. Instead, it asked its five million-strong audience to search for The Greatest Scot, with five documentaries across the week, accompanied by a debate and an online vote. Robert Burns was revealed as the greatest Scot in a St Andrew's Day special. While that beat ITV's offering in terms of audience share, the five factual programmes were not as popular as Collision, which starred the Scottish actor Douglas Henshall \u2013 which STV didn't know when it decided to opt out. Clements refuses to admit the decision was a mistake, adding \"it was a lesson learnt\". He says the policy is \"not about cost\", in spite of STV receiving 6% of its budget back when it opts out of ITV programming, but is rather \"a real statement of intent for us\".STV matters because it is attempting to reverse the 20-year destruction of ITV regional production centres across Britain in places such as Norwich and Birmingham, he says. \"I don't think we want that and I don't think our audience wants that.\" If the government grants STV independent producer status next year, it will make it easier to add to its first BBC commission, the daytime programme Antiques Road Trip.Amazing showIt is clear that Clements aims to transform STV. \"The slogan is from Scotland to the world, and it is not a sense of everything has to have a kilt in it. It is about being a producer that produces for me, for Scotland, for the UK and internationally.\" He says STV is proud to be part of the network. \"Who could not watch X Factor on Saturday night and think that was an amazing show, although the Scottish guy was really rubbish, slightly disappointingly.\" Combining those hit shows with local product is the \"best of both worlds\".Back to the legal battle. ITV claims STV owes it \u00a338m in unpaid programming bills and that STV is attempting to opt out of programming agreements retrospectively. In turn, STV claims ITV has withheld money it is due as part of its ad sales agreement. The third legal fight is about digital media rights. Yet Clements still has to deal with the Sassenachs down at the ITV network centre on a weekly basis, saying that relationships are \"on a professional and personal level very cordial\". He says he gets on well with Peter Fincham, the ITV director of television, who also jumped from an independent production company to a major broadcaster.But, while Clements thinks \"people have never felt more Scottish\", proud newspapers, including the Herald and the Scotsman, have suffered circulation slumps. In September the Daily Record sold about 50,000 copies fewer than the Scottish Sun. Figures from that month showed that STV's audience share decline has accelerated this year, falling to 16.9% for the first 34 weeks of 2009, from 19.1% over the same period last year. It is below ITV1's audience share, which fell from 18.3% to 17.3%.STV, which owns the two ITV franchises in Scotland, believes it can fight the trend for regional consolidation in the industry. Hence it wants to steal a march on the BBC and create its own version of a Scottish Six, a one-hour news bulletin produced entirely in Scotland that replaces the two half-hour bulletins of Scottish and national news. It wants to combine the 30-minute STV News and ITN's ITV News into a single one-hour news bulletin with 10 minutes of ultra-local news from centres including Dundee, Perth, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.Clements sells this as a virtue, but a separate 30-minute local bulletin based in Aberdeen would be axed to make room for the new programme and staff fear job losses in Aberdeen, Inverness and Dundee. And its fate is inextricably linked to the government's pilot schemes for independently funded news consortia to replace ITV regional news, one of which is for the Scottish Borders.Clements maintains that when STV airs quality homegrown shows it equals or beats ITV's offerings. But audiences can desert it dramatically, such as when it opted out of Marple in September for a repeat of the surfing movie Blue Crush. A disastrous 112,000 viewers watched, putting STV last out of the five terrestrial channels. The Scottish Sun asked \"Has STV lost its Marples?\". There are also questions of quality. One newspaper derided STV's Made in Scotland, presented by the Taggart actor John Michie, as a \"no-expense-incurred travelogue\".Clements is pushing ahead with The Scots At War, another hint of the direction that STV is moving in, not so much for the nationalistic subject matter \u2013 part of it will focus on the Black Watch \u2013 but because it is co-produced by the History Channel. If the stalwart detective drama Taggart is axed by ITV, STV hopes it can survive with co-producers.Over lunch, Clements is cheerful, charming and fizzing with ideas, so it is surprising to learn that colleagues once labelled him a \"little weasel\" and worse in a court case. It is not overstating it to say that his decision to jump ship in March 2007 to STV went down badly at RDF, the super-indie production company where he worked, particularly when Clements tried to take some projects with him. He and his wife, the Newsnight presenter Kirsty Wark, had created Scotland's first \"super-indie\" producer, when they merged their production company, Wark Clements, with the fellow indie Ideal World to form IWC. RDF bought it for \u00a314m in 2005 and Clements agreed to stay for three years, pocketing \u00a32m in cash and shares. But then he announced his intention to up sticks for STV.Constructive dismissalThere was a court case, a personal and professional nadir, during which evidence revealed that he got his wife's personal assistant to hack into a colleague's email account. Clements sued for constructive dismissal, lost the case and had to pay about \u00a3450,000 in legal costs. He appealed but a peace deal was struck with RDF that meant that Clements could start at STV three months earlier. His settlement that allowed him to sign on at STV also bars him from discussing it.No profile of Clements can be complete without a question about his wife. How does he cope with being referred to as Mr Kirsty Wark? He says they now lead totally separate professional lives. \"When I am running content at STV nobody asks me 'what does Kirsty think of it?'.\"Some weeks, he adds, they say goodbye to each other on a Monday morning and don't see each other until Friday. \"We get a lot of 'we are the power couple' but when you are sitting at home on a Saturday night having a beer and watching X Factor you don't feel the most powerful couple in Scotland.\"CVAge 48Education Stranraer Academy; University of GlasgowCareer 1989-1991 freelance journalist 1990 founder and managing director, Wark Clements & Co 2004 chairman and director of specialist factual, IWC Media 2006 creative director, IWC Media 2008 director of content, STV", "tags": ["STV Group", "Television industry", "ITV plc", "BBC", "Independent production companies", "The Sun", "ITN", "Peter Fincham", "The X Factor", "Television", "Television & radio", "Media"], "title": "Stephen Brook interviews Alan Clements, the head of content at STV"},{"date": "2009-12-04T09:33:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish motorists pay significantly less than their English counterparts for car insurance, according to research published today.Price comparison website moneysupermarket.com analysed almost 1m motor insurance quotes over 12 months and found that Scotland has seven of the 10 cheapest areas in the UK for car insurance.Truro is named as the best place to live for the cheapest insurance quotes, while Penzance and Bury St Edmunds were the only only other places outside Scotland to make the list.The research found that residents in parts of Birmingham and Manchester pay the most to insure their vehicle. Areas in both cities accounted for six of the 10 most expensive places to base your car, and motorists in Manchester could find their premiums around \u00a3500 or 126% more expensive than those in Scotland.Liverpool, which previously had the dubious honour of being the worst place to base a car for insurance purposes, has just one area on the list.Steve Sweeney, head of motor insurance at moneysupermarket.com, said: \"An array of factors can determine the price you will pay for car insurance, from crime and population levels in your area to where you park your vehicle. If your area is classified as 'high risk', insurers who don't assess motor insurance on an individual basis may adopt a blanket approach and many motorists could find their insurance is quite high to compensate for this.\"If premium costs were evaluated on a case-by-case basis, many motorists would receive quotes at a better price to match their individual circumstances.\"\u00a3356, TR1, Truro, Cornwall\u00a3375, KY12, Dunfermline, Scotland\u00a3380, KY6, Glenrothes, Scotland\u00a3380, DD5, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3381, AB15, Aberdeen, Scotland\u00a3383, IP33, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk\u00a3383, FK3, Grangemouth, Scotland\u00a3385, IV30, Elgin, Scotland\u00a3386, TR18, Penzance, Cornwall\u00a3386, DD2, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3873, M13, Ardwick/Longsight/Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester\u00a3840, B10, Small Heath, Birmingham\u00a3821, M8, Crumpsall/Cheetham Hill, Manchester\u00a3820, L7, Edge Hill/Fairfield/Kensington, Liverpool\u00a3819, BD8, Girlington/Manningham/Lower Grange, Bradford\u00a3819, B11, Sparkhill/Tyseley, Birmingham\u00a3814, B12, Balsall Heath, Birmingham\u00a3810, B8, Washwood Heath/Ward End/Saltley, Birmingham\u00a3809, E12, Manor Park, London\u00a3805, BT12, Falls, BelfastSource: moneysupermarket.com. Quotes based on a sample of 988,742, taken between September 2008 and August 2009.\u2022 Always shop around at renewal time. Don't assume your current provider is giving you the best renewal quote. Look at several car insurance comparison sites such as Comparethemarket.com, moneysupermarket.com and the Guardian's own to see what you can save.\u2022 Buy online. Many car insurers offer discounts to customers that shop on the web.\u2022 Reduce your mileage. When applying for insurance you have to estimate the number of miles you will do each year. If you aren't travelling much you usually pay less.\u2022 You'll get a better deal if you can reduce risk of the car being damaged while you're not using it. Keep the car off the road at night in a garage or on a drive to cut your premiums.\u2022 Make sure you have an alarm and immobiliser.\u2022 Pick a car with a smaller engine. The bigger and faster the vehicle the more it will cost to insure.\u2022 Up the excess. Agreeing to pay a higher excess, such as \u00a3500 instead of \u00a3100, can reduce your premiums. Don't forget you will need to pay this in the event of a claim, so be sure you can afford it.\u2022 Add an older driver. Young men adding their mothers to their policies have seen big savings as a result. Don't be tempted to put the policy in their name though. This is called fronting and could invalidate your insurance.\u2022 Make sure you get adequate cover. As you look for the lowest price, don't be tempted to scrap things you really need. Skipping extras you can't do without \u2013 such as legal fees cover \u2013 will be a false economy if you need to claim.", "tags": ["Car insurance", "Motoring", "Insurance", "Consumer affairs", "Money", "UK news", "Manchester", "Greater Manchester"], "title": "Want cheaper car insurance? Head to Scotland"},{"date": "2009-12-01T00:05:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In theory, St Andrew's Day might have been the ideal occasion for Alex Salmond to launch Scots along the path towards the independence referendum he aims to hold a year from now. But the warm glow that the national day properly brings to all Scots cannot disguise the bleak environment in which the Scottish nationalist first minister began his campaign. Only 24 hours before Mr Salmond unveiled his white paper on independence, a poll put support for independence at a record recent low of 20%, with only 25% saying they want an early say on the union. Even allowing for the vagaries of questions that rival pollsters ask, these figures show the scale of the uphill struggle that faces Mr Salmond if he is to turn the white paper into the separatist mandate of his dreams.Ever since 2007, however, Mr Salmond has repeatedly shown that he is not a politician to be underestimated. As first minister he has made minority government work for more than two years. His biggest asset is his ability to play a weak hand in the strongest possible way. Like all guerrilla politicians, he avoids battles on open ground, knowing he would lose, and prefers to accumulate smaller victories and to endlessly provoke his opponents. Mr Salmond knows that his best chance of persuading Scots to vote for independence is to lure the UK government and the pro-UK parties into overbearing responses that send offended voters flocking to the SNP. That ambition runs through the new white paper.Like the self-described Scottish national conversation that preceded it, the white paper is a sleight of hand performed in a hall of mirrors. It affects to offer a wide range of equal options about Scottish governance, including the enhanced Holyrood powers proposed by the UK government last week in the wake of the Calman commission. It purports to be taking part in an often quite dry and technical conversation about the best place of the Scottish parliament and the Scottish government within the UK's political and revenue-raising arrangements. It gives the impression of being relaxed about the outcome from a pluralistic set of alternatives. In reality its focus is Mr Salmond's wish to persuade the Scottish electorate to vote for a proposition on independence whose precise words the white paper does not even reveal, and whose implications are rarely spelled out and are sometimes contradictory.Mr Salmond knows that the anti-independence majority at Holyrood is likely to block his referendum bill next year. That is why he is crafting it in such apparently cuddly language. He hopes that the voters will be outraged by being denied a vote on such a reasonable proposition. He will then fight the 2011 Scottish election as the man who simply wants to give the electorate its say \u2013 and hopes that he then can transform the wish for a vote into the wish for independence. Either way, these plans designedly place Mr Salmond, the SNP and the independence question at the centre of Scottish politics just at a time when Scots' minds, like minds elsewhere, are focused more on recession.If that is what Scots want then it is what they will get. There is, though, a brave and responsible alternative. Gordon Brown could go to the House of Commons next week and ask it to pass a bill for a Scottish referendum on the union. He could ensure the question that was put to the voters in that poll was simple and clear \u2013 do you want Scotland to be part of the UK or not? \u2013 rather than the tricksier formulation that the SNP apparently plans. He could require the Electoral Commission to ensure the contest was fought on a level campaign playing field of costs and propaganda, rather than with the loaded dice that Mr Salmond might use. And he could call the referendum on the day of the UK general election, thus settling the issue for the foreseeable future. Mr Brown should be a braveheart. He should call the nationalists' bluff.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Constitutional reform", "Politics", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Scotland and the union: Alex's cunning plan"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Labour government's white paper proposing greater tax powers for the Scottish parliament has been dismissed as an exercise in pre-election window dressing. For a start, it will never be implemented because there is not enough time for legislation to pass Westminster before the general election. It looks like a pre-election spoiler before the SNP government publishes its bill for an independence referendum on St Andrews Day. But that doesn't mean it is worthless.The Scottish secretary, Jim Murphy, is clearly offering Scottish voters a choice: vote nationalist and get an independence referendum few appear to want \u2013 recent polls suggest barely a third of Scottish voters favour independence \u2013 or vote for Labour and get a better devolution, a Scottish parliament with extra powers, based on the proposals in the Calman commission report published earlier this year.The Calman commission was set up by the main opposition parties in Scotland nearly two years ago as the answer to the new SNP government's \"national conversation\" on its plans for an independence referendum. Sir Kenneth Calman, the former chief medical officer for Scotland, held hearings for more than a year and came to the conclusion that if the Scottish parliament is to be responsible and accountable, it should raise at least a proportion of the money it spends on services. The Scottish government has about $33bn to play with, thanks to the Barnett formula, which calculates increases in spending on a per capita basis. This bloc grant arrangement is unsound, according to Calman, because it encourages politicians to spend without having to go to the people to seek endorsement for raising the tax revenues to meet spending decisions.Critics of Barnett, especially in the UK Conservative party, have long argued that this bloc grant is a licence for MSPs to vote for measures like free school meals, free higher education and free prescriptions which are paid for by the English taxpayer. This is not true, of course, since any spending pledges made by the Scottish government have to be financed by savings elsewhere in the Scottish budget. The Barnett formula does not automatically increase the bloc grant to pay for manifesto pledges.However, Calman accepted the argument that there needed to be more transparency in the arrangements and that spending should be seen more closely to match taxation, so he proposed to split income tax between the Scottish parliament and a revised Barnett formula. He also called for the Scottish parliament to have control over stamp duty on house sales, land tax and possibly other taxes such as air passenger duty. His proposals were criticised by economists for being incoherent and in many ways they are. Why make the Scottish parliament only half accountable by letting it raise half of income tax? What about oil revenues? Why not sales taxes?There may indeed be problems with the mechanisms for taxation proposed by Calman, but the importance of the report is that it has built a political consensus around a proposal which can only lead to a form of federalism. The Scottish parliament already has primary legislative powers over most domestic policy \u2013 except for a few anomalies that Calman said should be addressed by looking at giving the Scottish parliament powers over broadcasting, firearms, energy policy and drugs.If Holyrood now were given substantial taxation powers we would be living in a new UK, which may be why the SNP has been rather more favourably disposed to Calman. It realises that once the principle is established that Scotland should raise the money it spends, then the logical conclusion can only be a form of fiscal federalism and greater power for the Scottish parliament.So why is Jim Murphy, the ultra-unionist Scottish secretary, so keen on implementing these measures? Well, historically it has always been Labour that has moved home rule on to the next stage. It was Labour that led the Scottish constitutional convention in the 1980s which campaigned for a Scottish parliament \u2013 the SNP boycotted it. It was a Labour government that passed the Scotland Act which set up Holyrood, so it should be no surprise that Labour is now heading a drive to extend devolution to the new level. Labour has had to find a way to undermine the success of the SNP in the Scottish parliament, and it has done so by the traditional means of offering more power within a reformed union.The question now is \u2013 what will the Tories do if they win the general election?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Tax and spending", "Tax", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Politics", "UK news", "Money"], "title": "Labour's taxing tactics in Scotland | Iain Macwhirter"},{"date": "2009-12-07T00:20:21Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Keen to pursue a career in political risk analysis, Alan Clements originally had no interest in going into television, describing TV as \"just something that was in the corner\". That attitude did not last. Clements took a Christmas job as a runner in the BBC's Glasgow offices and went on to make a fortune from creating a Scottish \"super-indie\" production company before selling it to an even bigger indie. He joined STV, Scotland's main commercial network, a year ago as the head of content, but not before a headline-making court case.It would be unfair to say that controversy follows Clements around, but it has been an eventful year. STV has dropped some ITV mainstays from its schedule, including Doc Martin and The Bill. It didn't even screen Wuthering Heights, opting instead for a repeat of a 2002 police drama starring Daniela Nardini and beating the adaptation's audience share. The company is also engaged in a trio of legal disputes with ITV, which supplies about 90% of its programmes, over programming fees, digital media rights and advertising sales.In August, ITV's chief operating officer, John Cresswell, claimed STV was \"damaging the ITV network and its ABC1 profile\". Claim and counter-claim are heading for the courts. Is it fair to say that STV is trying to devolve from ITV? Clements, who is still keenly interested in politics, pauses a moment before replying: \"I think it is very fair. The company fundamentally faced a crossroads. You could either have become ITV in Scotland and just taken all the ITV schedule apart from local news. I'm really proud and absolutely unrepentant that we have gone down the road of STV being the national broadcaster of Scotland.\" Thus soaps are sacrosanct, Murderland with Robbie Coltrane is in, but Al Murray's Pub Landlord is definitely out, because it \"goes down like a cup of cold sick in Scotland, a cockney landlord shouting at an audience\".And STV did not screen Collision, ITV's big drama success last month, which was stripped across five weeknights at 9pm. Instead, it asked its five million-strong audience to search for The Greatest Scot, with five documentaries across the week, accompanied by a debate and an online vote. Robert Burns was revealed as the greatest Scot in a St Andrew's Day special. While that beat ITV's offering in terms of audience share, the five factual programmes were not as popular as Collision, which starred the Scottish actor Douglas Henshall \u2013 which STV didn't know when it decided to opt out. Clements refuses to admit the decision was a mistake, adding \"it was a lesson learnt\". He says the policy is \"not about cost\", in spite of STV receiving 6% of its budget back when it opts out of ITV programming, but is rather \"a real statement of intent for us\".STV matters because it is attempting to reverse the 20-year destruction of ITV regional production centres across Britain in places such as Norwich and Birmingham, he says. \"I don't think we want that and I don't think our audience wants that.\" If the government grants STV independent producer status next year, it will make it easier to add to its first BBC commission, the daytime programme Antiques Road Trip.Amazing showIt is clear that Clements aims to transform STV. \"The slogan is from Scotland to the world, and it is not a sense of everything has to have a kilt in it. It is about being a producer that produces for me, for Scotland, for the UK and internationally.\" He says STV is proud to be part of the network. \"Who could not watch X Factor on Saturday night and think that was an amazing show, although the Scottish guy was really rubbish, slightly disappointingly.\" Combining those hit shows with local product is the \"best of both worlds\".Back to the legal battle. ITV claims STV owes it \u00a338m in unpaid programming bills and that STV is attempting to opt out of programming agreements retrospectively. In turn, STV claims ITV has withheld money it is due as part of its ad sales agreement. The third legal fight is about digital media rights. Yet Clements still has to deal with the Sassenachs down at the ITV network centre on a weekly basis, saying that relationships are \"on a professional and personal level very cordial\". He says he gets on well with Peter Fincham, the ITV director of television, who also jumped from an independent production company to a major broadcaster.But, while Clements thinks \"people have never felt more Scottish\", proud newspapers, including the Herald and the Scotsman, have suffered circulation slumps. In September the Daily Record sold about 50,000 copies fewer than the Scottish Sun. Figures from that month showed that STV's audience share decline has accelerated this year, falling to 16.9% for the first 34 weeks of 2009, from 19.1% over the same period last year. It is below ITV1's audience share, which fell from 18.3% to 17.3%.STV, which owns the two ITV franchises in Scotland, believes it can fight the trend for regional consolidation in the industry. Hence it wants to steal a march on the BBC and create its own version of a Scottish Six, a one-hour news bulletin produced entirely in Scotland that replaces the two half-hour bulletins of Scottish and national news. It wants to combine the 30-minute STV News and ITN's ITV News into a single one-hour news bulletin with 10 minutes of ultra-local news from centres including Dundee, Perth, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.Clements sells this as a virtue, but a separate 30-minute local bulletin based in Aberdeen would be axed to make room for the new programme and staff fear job losses in Aberdeen, Inverness and Dundee. And its fate is inextricably linked to the government's pilot schemes for independently funded news consortia to replace ITV regional news, one of which is for the Scottish Borders.Clements maintains that when STV airs quality homegrown shows it equals or beats ITV's offerings. But audiences can desert it dramatically, such as when it opted out of Marple in September for a repeat of the surfing movie Blue Crush. A disastrous 112,000 viewers watched, putting STV last out of the five terrestrial channels. The Scottish Sun asked \"Has STV lost its Marples?\". There are also questions of quality. One newspaper derided STV's Made in Scotland, presented by the Taggart actor John Michie, as a \"no-expense-incurred travelogue\".Clements is pushing ahead with The Scots At War, another hint of the direction that STV is moving in, not so much for the nationalistic subject matter \u2013 part of it will focus on the Black Watch \u2013 but because it is co-produced by the History Channel. If the stalwart detective drama Taggart is axed by ITV, STV hopes it can survive with co-producers.Over lunch, Clements is cheerful, charming and fizzing with ideas, so it is surprising to learn that colleagues once labelled him a \"little weasel\" and worse in a court case. It is not overstating it to say that his decision to jump ship in March 2007 to STV went down badly at RDF, the super-indie production company where he worked, particularly when Clements tried to take some projects with him. He and his wife, the Newsnight presenter Kirsty Wark, had created Scotland's first \"super-indie\" producer, when they merged their production company, Wark Clements, with the fellow indie Ideal World to form IWC. RDF bought it for \u00a314m in 2005 and Clements agreed to stay for three years, pocketing \u00a32m in cash and shares. But then he announced his intention to up sticks for STV.Constructive dismissalThere was a court case, a personal and professional nadir, during which evidence revealed that he got his wife's personal assistant to hack into a colleague's email account. Clements sued for constructive dismissal, lost the case and had to pay about \u00a3450,000 in legal costs. He appealed but a peace deal was struck with RDF that meant that Clements could start at STV three months earlier. His settlement that allowed him to sign on at STV also bars him from discussing it.No profile of Clements can be complete without a question about his wife. How does he cope with being referred to as Mr Kirsty Wark? He says they now lead totally separate professional lives. \"When I am running content at STV nobody asks me 'what does Kirsty think of it?'.\"Some weeks, he adds, they say goodbye to each other on a Monday morning and don't see each other until Friday. \"We get a lot of 'we are the power couple' but when you are sitting at home on a Saturday night having a beer and watching X Factor you don't feel the most powerful couple in Scotland.\"CVAge 48Education Stranraer Academy; University of GlasgowCareer 1989-1991 freelance journalist 1990 founder and managing director, Wark Clements & Co 2004 chairman and director of specialist factual, IWC Media 2006 creative director, IWC Media 2008 director of content, STV", "tags": ["STV Group", "Television industry", "ITV plc", "BBC", "Independent production companies", "The Sun", "ITN", "Peter Fincham", "The X Factor", "Television", "Television & radio", "Media"], "title": "Stephen Brook interviews Alan Clements, the head of content at STV"},{"date": "2009-12-04T09:33:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish motorists pay significantly less than their English counterparts for car insurance, according to research published today.Price comparison website moneysupermarket.com analysed almost 1m motor insurance quotes over 12 months and found that Scotland has seven of the 10 cheapest areas in the UK for car insurance.Truro is named as the best place to live for the cheapest insurance quotes, while Penzance and Bury St Edmunds were the only only other places outside Scotland to make the list.The research found that residents in parts of Birmingham and Manchester pay the most to insure their vehicle. Areas in both cities accounted for six of the 10 most expensive places to base your car, and motorists in Manchester could find their premiums around \u00a3500 or 126% more expensive than those in Scotland.Liverpool, which previously had the dubious honour of being the worst place to base a car for insurance purposes, has just one area on the list.Steve Sweeney, head of motor insurance at moneysupermarket.com, said: \"An array of factors can determine the price you will pay for car insurance, from crime and population levels in your area to where you park your vehicle. If your area is classified as 'high risk', insurers who don't assess motor insurance on an individual basis may adopt a blanket approach and many motorists could find their insurance is quite high to compensate for this.\"If premium costs were evaluated on a case-by-case basis, many motorists would receive quotes at a better price to match their individual circumstances.\"\u00a3356, TR1, Truro, Cornwall\u00a3375, KY12, Dunfermline, Scotland\u00a3380, KY6, Glenrothes, Scotland\u00a3380, DD5, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3381, AB15, Aberdeen, Scotland\u00a3383, IP33, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk\u00a3383, FK3, Grangemouth, Scotland\u00a3385, IV30, Elgin, Scotland\u00a3386, TR18, Penzance, Cornwall\u00a3386, DD2, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3873, M13, Ardwick/Longsight/Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester\u00a3840, B10, Small Heath, Birmingham\u00a3821, M8, Crumpsall/Cheetham Hill, Manchester\u00a3820, L7, Edge Hill/Fairfield/Kensington, Liverpool\u00a3819, BD8, Girlington/Manningham/Lower Grange, Bradford\u00a3819, B11, Sparkhill/Tyseley, Birmingham\u00a3814, B12, Balsall Heath, Birmingham\u00a3810, B8, Washwood Heath/Ward End/Saltley, Birmingham\u00a3809, E12, Manor Park, London\u00a3805, BT12, Falls, BelfastSource: moneysupermarket.com. Quotes based on a sample of 988,742, taken between September 2008 and August 2009.\u2022 Always shop around at renewal time. Don't assume your current provider is giving you the best renewal quote. Look at several car insurance comparison sites such as Comparethemarket.com, moneysupermarket.com and the Guardian's own to see what you can save.\u2022 Buy online. Many car insurers offer discounts to customers that shop on the web.\u2022 Reduce your mileage. When applying for insurance you have to estimate the number of miles you will do each year. If you aren't travelling much you usually pay less.\u2022 You'll get a better deal if you can reduce risk of the car being damaged while you're not using it. Keep the car off the road at night in a garage or on a drive to cut your premiums.\u2022 Make sure you have an alarm and immobiliser.\u2022 Pick a car with a smaller engine. The bigger and faster the vehicle the more it will cost to insure.\u2022 Up the excess. Agreeing to pay a higher excess, such as \u00a3500 instead of \u00a3100, can reduce your premiums. Don't forget you will need to pay this in the event of a claim, so be sure you can afford it.\u2022 Add an older driver. Young men adding their mothers to their policies have seen big savings as a result. Don't be tempted to put the policy in their name though. This is called fronting and could invalidate your insurance.\u2022 Make sure you get adequate cover. As you look for the lowest price, don't be tempted to scrap things you really need. Skipping extras you can't do without \u2013 such as legal fees cover \u2013 will be a false economy if you need to claim.", "tags": ["Car insurance", "Motoring", "Insurance", "Consumer affairs", "Money", "UK news", "Manchester", "Greater Manchester"], "title": "Want cheaper car insurance? Head to Scotland"},{"date": "2009-12-01T00:05:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In theory, St Andrew's Day might have been the ideal occasion for Alex Salmond to launch Scots along the path towards the independence referendum he aims to hold a year from now. But the warm glow that the national day properly brings to all Scots cannot disguise the bleak environment in which the Scottish nationalist first minister began his campaign. Only 24 hours before Mr Salmond unveiled his white paper on independence, a poll put support for independence at a record recent low of 20%, with only 25% saying they want an early say on the union. Even allowing for the vagaries of questions that rival pollsters ask, these figures show the scale of the uphill struggle that faces Mr Salmond if he is to turn the white paper into the separatist mandate of his dreams.Ever since 2007, however, Mr Salmond has repeatedly shown that he is not a politician to be underestimated. As first minister he has made minority government work for more than two years. His biggest asset is his ability to play a weak hand in the strongest possible way. Like all guerrilla politicians, he avoids battles on open ground, knowing he would lose, and prefers to accumulate smaller victories and to endlessly provoke his opponents. Mr Salmond knows that his best chance of persuading Scots to vote for independence is to lure the UK government and the pro-UK parties into overbearing responses that send offended voters flocking to the SNP. That ambition runs through the new white paper.Like the self-described Scottish national conversation that preceded it, the white paper is a sleight of hand performed in a hall of mirrors. It affects to offer a wide range of equal options about Scottish governance, including the enhanced Holyrood powers proposed by the UK government last week in the wake of the Calman commission. It purports to be taking part in an often quite dry and technical conversation about the best place of the Scottish parliament and the Scottish government within the UK's political and revenue-raising arrangements. It gives the impression of being relaxed about the outcome from a pluralistic set of alternatives. In reality its focus is Mr Salmond's wish to persuade the Scottish electorate to vote for a proposition on independence whose precise words the white paper does not even reveal, and whose implications are rarely spelled out and are sometimes contradictory.Mr Salmond knows that the anti-independence majority at Holyrood is likely to block his referendum bill next year. That is why he is crafting it in such apparently cuddly language. He hopes that the voters will be outraged by being denied a vote on such a reasonable proposition. He will then fight the 2011 Scottish election as the man who simply wants to give the electorate its say \u2013 and hopes that he then can transform the wish for a vote into the wish for independence. Either way, these plans designedly place Mr Salmond, the SNP and the independence question at the centre of Scottish politics just at a time when Scots' minds, like minds elsewhere, are focused more on recession.If that is what Scots want then it is what they will get. There is, though, a brave and responsible alternative. Gordon Brown could go to the House of Commons next week and ask it to pass a bill for a Scottish referendum on the union. He could ensure the question that was put to the voters in that poll was simple and clear \u2013 do you want Scotland to be part of the UK or not? \u2013 rather than the tricksier formulation that the SNP apparently plans. He could require the Electoral Commission to ensure the contest was fought on a level campaign playing field of costs and propaganda, rather than with the loaded dice that Mr Salmond might use. And he could call the referendum on the day of the UK general election, thus settling the issue for the foreseeable future. Mr Brown should be a braveheart. He should call the nationalists' bluff.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Constitutional reform", "Politics", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Scotland and the union: Alex's cunning plan"},{"date": "2009-11-04T16:33:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alex Salmond's Scottish nationalist government has joined California and New York city in a global alliance of small states, city councils and major companies pressing for deep and binding cuts in CO2 emissions.The Scottish National party administration said today it had signed up to the Climate Group, a London-based not-for-profit campaign which is lobbying heavily for a far-reaching and long-term global deal on emissions at next month's climate talks in Copenhagen.The Scottish government is in part attempting to outflank the Labour-led government in London, which has refused Salmond's demands that the UK delegation should include a Scottish minister in Copenhagen. Gordon Brown has offered only to allow a Scottish civil servant to take part, arguing that the UK has to present a united and consistent front at the talks.The SNP, which runs a minority government in Scotland, has introduced some of the most ambitious climate change legislation of any comparable administration, partly under intense pressure from opposition parties at the Scottish parliament.Those include legislation requiring up to 42% cuts in CO2 emissions by 2020 and annual legally binding emissions reductions, and for the first time published line-by-line carbon emissions for \u00a333bn in core spending in its annual budget in September. Environment groups say these measures are more radical than the UK's government's policies.The SNP is now building alternative alliances with other regional and \"sub-national\" governments through the Climate Group, which includes Catalonia, California, Chicago, the Greater London Authority, North Rhine and Westphalia, Western Australia, Ontario and Quebec. Major companies who are amongst the more than 60 full members include Google, Virgin, Timberland, BSkyB, BP, IBM, Tesco and Marks and Spencer.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stephenson, made the announcement at a Climate Group event during the UN's pre-Copenhagen talks in Barcelona, and is expected to attend Copenhagen for the organisation's day of fringe events.Stephenson said: \"The Scottish government recognises the urgency of addressing climate change and is an active partner in the common desire to identify solutions, work towards adaptation and create a sustainable future.\"Luc Bas, the Climate Group's head of government relations for Europe, said Scotland had set a \"great example\" by agreeing ambitious cuts targets in its Climate Change Act, the carbon assessments in its budgets and \"strategic approach\" to climate change adaptation.\"Scotland's commitment to green energy and the economic opportunities of the low carbon economy is impressive and far-sighted. This is a great model for other countries to follow,\" he said.Some senior environmentalists have been privately very critical of Salmond's attempts to join the official UK delegation to Copenhagen, since Scotland is a minor force on the global stage, and accused him of posturing.Despite its ambitious policies, the devolved Scottish government only controls about 30% of Scotland's total CO2 outputs, which in turn account for less than 10% of the UK's emissions. The remaining 70% are influenced by European Union and UK government policies, such as on fuel taxation, VAT and aviation.Hitting the 42% cut by 2020 also requires a binding deal at Copenhagen, and Stephenson could cut that target if no deal is reached. Despite championing green energy projects, Salmond also supports new coal-fired power stations, the North Sea oil industry, and roads and airport expansion.Critics believe the Scottish government is far better able to influence regional governments or states of a similar size, rather than pretend it can challenge India, China or the US.Richard Dixon, director of the environment group WWF Scotland and a supporter of the SNP's policies on climate change, said the decision to join the Climate Group was a welcome.\"It's a perfectly sensible thing to do. Scotland shouldn't be trying to pretend to sit beside the UK. It should be sitting alongside a really good regional grouping,\" he said.", "tags": ["Climate change", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Environment", "World news", "UK news", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Global climate talks"], "title": "Scotland signs up to Climate Group"},{"date": "2009-11-05T12:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In an interesting piece in today's G2 by Allegra McEvedy, she discusses Defra's campaign to increase the number of UK food products with protected status and points out that Britain has just 38 protected food names compared to over 300 from France and Italy.Famously, Melton Mowbray pork pies now have protection after attempts by others to produce them without the care and attention required to achieve the high standards of the originals - the move there was reactive, safeguarding the product from an immediate threat. Stilton, Cornish clotted cream and Arbroath smokies are likewise already protected. Simon Majumdar has written on WoM before about attempts to protect the Birmingham balti and Glasgow's chicken tikka masala.Unfortunately, it's too late for many British products and dishes, most depressingly perhaps in the case of cheddar cheese which is now so widespread, churned out across the globe, that as far as I'm aware we can't now reclaim the name. That's a lesson UK producers should all take to heart. We have thousands of wonderful producers who we all too often take for granted. More of them should be celebrated and their products safeguarded. As well as the laborious application process which can be so offputting for small producers, I think the British personality is to blame.Last night I was at a wonderful dinner hosted by Atul Kocher from Benares, and featuring several prominent Indian chefs from around the world. Speaking to Cyrus Todiwala, the Bombay-born British restaurateur who runs Cafe Spice, we discussed his feeling that in India, as in Britain, there's a tendency to favour produce from elsewhere - a mentality that says \"If it's ours, it can't be that good\". There's an obvious pride in Indian cuisine, in street food and in home cooking, but perhaps in the developing restaurant culture that pride is matched with a fascination for what's going on elsewhere, which can be a good and a bad thing.The chefs put out a wonderful menu, and in honour of Vancouver restaurateur Vicram Vij from Bombay also showcased Canadian and Indian wines. While serving a decent shiraz from Nashik and an absolutely stunning British Colombian ice wine (Riesling Reserve Mission Hill 2006), always there was the caveat, the discussion, \"they're not Italian or French\"; \"we're younger producers\"; \"the land isn't mature yet, but they're decent.\" All quite true, but why dwell on the negatives?The Italians and French have a pride in their cuisine which is bought into by the rest of us, and their confidence has grown on the international gastronomic stage. Meanwhile we've been reproachfully obsessing over what's wrong with our food culture (and there is much) instead of celebrating what's right. It's a vicious circle and Allegra has it spot on, it's absolutely right to stop it now.Allegra points out that producers of any foodstuff can apply, and mentions our wonderful asparagus and the many high quality cheeses on display at Neal's Yard Dairy. But shortly after reading her article I found myself staring at a BBC story from yesterday about one of the current producers seeking protection - the haunting image you see above: the square Lorne sausage. It's named after the Kirkintilloch-born comedian Tommy Lorne, who apparently came up with the mix of nutmeg, coriander, beef and pork. The recipe is in fact reproduced in Maw Broon's cookbook which attracted criticism for its unhealthy recipes a couple of years back. Now there's no doubting the square sausage is much loved. It's one of the things that improved my teenage years vastly (strictly behind my parents' backs) - in a roll, smothered with brown sauce and grabbed from the hatch of a snack bar. I loved them. I haven't had one for years but I can recall the fried square patty of fatty meat and spicy flavours as if it were yesterday.I have mixed feelings, though, about this one. The Lorne sausage has always figured in my memory as a bit of a guilty snack. It's not exactly associated with health in its cooked form, and uncooked it resembles a big sludgy, meaty brick. Neither is it made from decent meat - usually it's the cheapest of the cheap bits. To be honest, it feels a bit ... well, embarrassing that this should be one of the first things Scotland should find to shout about. Wouldn't the likes of Stornoway black pudding or haggis (currently being argued over by English and Scottish historians), be more suitable products to protect? Doesn't the Lorne sausage bid reinforce our reputation for culinary embarrassment? Or am I suffering from the affliction I describe above - after all, if protected status was about healthy foods, the numbers would shrink by hundreds (and whisky would surely be the first to go).", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Sausages"], "title": "Scotland fights its corner"},{"date": "2009-11-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Labour government's white paper proposing greater tax powers for the Scottish parliament has been dismissed as an exercise in pre-election window dressing. For a start, it will never be implemented because there is not enough time for legislation to pass Westminster before the general election. It looks like a pre-election spoiler before the SNP government publishes its bill for an independence referendum on St Andrews Day. But that doesn't mean it is worthless.The Scottish secretary, Jim Murphy, is clearly offering Scottish voters a choice: vote nationalist and get an independence referendum few appear to want \u2013 recent polls suggest barely a third of Scottish voters favour independence \u2013 or vote for Labour and get a better devolution, a Scottish parliament with extra powers, based on the proposals in the Calman commission report published earlier this year.The Calman commission was set up by the main opposition parties in Scotland nearly two years ago as the answer to the new SNP government's \"national conversation\" on its plans for an independence referendum. Sir Kenneth Calman, the former chief medical officer for Scotland, held hearings for more than a year and came to the conclusion that if the Scottish parliament is to be responsible and accountable, it should raise at least a proportion of the money it spends on services. The Scottish government has about $33bn to play with, thanks to the Barnett formula, which calculates increases in spending on a per capita basis. This bloc grant arrangement is unsound, according to Calman, because it encourages politicians to spend without having to go to the people to seek endorsement for raising the tax revenues to meet spending decisions.Critics of Barnett, especially in the UK Conservative party, have long argued that this bloc grant is a licence for MSPs to vote for measures like free school meals, free higher education and free prescriptions which are paid for by the English taxpayer. This is not true, of course, since any spending pledges made by the Scottish government have to be financed by savings elsewhere in the Scottish budget. The Barnett formula does not automatically increase the bloc grant to pay for manifesto pledges.However, Calman accepted the argument that there needed to be more transparency in the arrangements and that spending should be seen more closely to match taxation, so he proposed to split income tax between the Scottish parliament and a revised Barnett formula. He also called for the Scottish parliament to have control over stamp duty on house sales, land tax and possibly other taxes such as air passenger duty. His proposals were criticised by economists for being incoherent and in many ways they are. Why make the Scottish parliament only half accountable by letting it raise half of income tax? What about oil revenues? Why not sales taxes?There may indeed be problems with the mechanisms for taxation proposed by Calman, but the importance of the report is that it has built a political consensus around a proposal which can only lead to a form of federalism. The Scottish parliament already has primary legislative powers over most domestic policy \u2013 except for a few anomalies that Calman said should be addressed by looking at giving the Scottish parliament powers over broadcasting, firearms, energy policy and drugs.If Holyrood now were given substantial taxation powers we would be living in a new UK, which may be why the SNP has been rather more favourably disposed to Calman. It realises that once the principle is established that Scotland should raise the money it spends, then the logical conclusion can only be a form of fiscal federalism and greater power for the Scottish parliament.So why is Jim Murphy, the ultra-unionist Scottish secretary, so keen on implementing these measures? Well, historically it has always been Labour that has moved home rule on to the next stage. It was Labour that led the Scottish constitutional convention in the 1980s which campaigned for a Scottish parliament \u2013 the SNP boycotted it. It was a Labour government that passed the Scotland Act which set up Holyrood, so it should be no surprise that Labour is now heading a drive to extend devolution to the new level. Labour has had to find a way to undermine the success of the SNP in the Scottish parliament, and it has done so by the traditional means of offering more power within a reformed union.The question now is \u2013 what will the Tories do if they win the general election?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Tax and spending", "Tax", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Politics", "UK news", "Money"], "title": "Labour's taxing tactics in Scotland | Iain Macwhirter"},{"date": "2009-12-07T00:20:21Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Keen to pursue a career in political risk analysis, Alan Clements originally had no interest in going into television, describing TV as \"just something that was in the corner\". That attitude did not last. Clements took a Christmas job as a runner in the BBC's Glasgow offices and went on to make a fortune from creating a Scottish \"super-indie\" production company before selling it to an even bigger indie. He joined STV, Scotland's main commercial network, a year ago as the head of content, but not before a headline-making court case.It would be unfair to say that controversy follows Clements around, but it has been an eventful year. STV has dropped some ITV mainstays from its schedule, including Doc Martin and The Bill. It didn't even screen Wuthering Heights, opting instead for a repeat of a 2002 police drama starring Daniela Nardini and beating the adaptation's audience share. The company is also engaged in a trio of legal disputes with ITV, which supplies about 90% of its programmes, over programming fees, digital media rights and advertising sales.In August, ITV's chief operating officer, John Cresswell, claimed STV was \"damaging the ITV network and its ABC1 profile\". Claim and counter-claim are heading for the courts. Is it fair to say that STV is trying to devolve from ITV? Clements, who is still keenly interested in politics, pauses a moment before replying: \"I think it is very fair. The company fundamentally faced a crossroads. You could either have become ITV in Scotland and just taken all the ITV schedule apart from local news. I'm really proud and absolutely unrepentant that we have gone down the road of STV being the national broadcaster of Scotland.\" Thus soaps are sacrosanct, Murderland with Robbie Coltrane is in, but Al Murray's Pub Landlord is definitely out, because it \"goes down like a cup of cold sick in Scotland, a cockney landlord shouting at an audience\".And STV did not screen Collision, ITV's big drama success last month, which was stripped across five weeknights at 9pm. Instead, it asked its five million-strong audience to search for The Greatest Scot, with five documentaries across the week, accompanied by a debate and an online vote. Robert Burns was revealed as the greatest Scot in a St Andrew's Day special. While that beat ITV's offering in terms of audience share, the five factual programmes were not as popular as Collision, which starred the Scottish actor Douglas Henshall \u2013 which STV didn't know when it decided to opt out. Clements refuses to admit the decision was a mistake, adding \"it was a lesson learnt\". He says the policy is \"not about cost\", in spite of STV receiving 6% of its budget back when it opts out of ITV programming, but is rather \"a real statement of intent for us\".STV matters because it is attempting to reverse the 20-year destruction of ITV regional production centres across Britain in places such as Norwich and Birmingham, he says. \"I don't think we want that and I don't think our audience wants that.\" If the government grants STV independent producer status next year, it will make it easier to add to its first BBC commission, the daytime programme Antiques Road Trip.Amazing showIt is clear that Clements aims to transform STV. \"The slogan is from Scotland to the world, and it is not a sense of everything has to have a kilt in it. It is about being a producer that produces for me, for Scotland, for the UK and internationally.\" He says STV is proud to be part of the network. \"Who could not watch X Factor on Saturday night and think that was an amazing show, although the Scottish guy was really rubbish, slightly disappointingly.\" Combining those hit shows with local product is the \"best of both worlds\".Back to the legal battle. ITV claims STV owes it \u00a338m in unpaid programming bills and that STV is attempting to opt out of programming agreements retrospectively. In turn, STV claims ITV has withheld money it is due as part of its ad sales agreement. The third legal fight is about digital media rights. Yet Clements still has to deal with the Sassenachs down at the ITV network centre on a weekly basis, saying that relationships are \"on a professional and personal level very cordial\". He says he gets on well with Peter Fincham, the ITV director of television, who also jumped from an independent production company to a major broadcaster.But, while Clements thinks \"people have never felt more Scottish\", proud newspapers, including the Herald and the Scotsman, have suffered circulation slumps. In September the Daily Record sold about 50,000 copies fewer than the Scottish Sun. Figures from that month showed that STV's audience share decline has accelerated this year, falling to 16.9% for the first 34 weeks of 2009, from 19.1% over the same period last year. It is below ITV1's audience share, which fell from 18.3% to 17.3%.STV, which owns the two ITV franchises in Scotland, believes it can fight the trend for regional consolidation in the industry. Hence it wants to steal a march on the BBC and create its own version of a Scottish Six, a one-hour news bulletin produced entirely in Scotland that replaces the two half-hour bulletins of Scottish and national news. It wants to combine the 30-minute STV News and ITN's ITV News into a single one-hour news bulletin with 10 minutes of ultra-local news from centres including Dundee, Perth, Edinburgh and Aberdeen.Clements sells this as a virtue, but a separate 30-minute local bulletin based in Aberdeen would be axed to make room for the new programme and staff fear job losses in Aberdeen, Inverness and Dundee. And its fate is inextricably linked to the government's pilot schemes for independently funded news consortia to replace ITV regional news, one of which is for the Scottish Borders.Clements maintains that when STV airs quality homegrown shows it equals or beats ITV's offerings. But audiences can desert it dramatically, such as when it opted out of Marple in September for a repeat of the surfing movie Blue Crush. A disastrous 112,000 viewers watched, putting STV last out of the five terrestrial channels. The Scottish Sun asked \"Has STV lost its Marples?\". There are also questions of quality. One newspaper derided STV's Made in Scotland, presented by the Taggart actor John Michie, as a \"no-expense-incurred travelogue\".Clements is pushing ahead with The Scots At War, another hint of the direction that STV is moving in, not so much for the nationalistic subject matter \u2013 part of it will focus on the Black Watch \u2013 but because it is co-produced by the History Channel. If the stalwart detective drama Taggart is axed by ITV, STV hopes it can survive with co-producers.Over lunch, Clements is cheerful, charming and fizzing with ideas, so it is surprising to learn that colleagues once labelled him a \"little weasel\" and worse in a court case. It is not overstating it to say that his decision to jump ship in March 2007 to STV went down badly at RDF, the super-indie production company where he worked, particularly when Clements tried to take some projects with him. He and his wife, the Newsnight presenter Kirsty Wark, had created Scotland's first \"super-indie\" producer, when they merged their production company, Wark Clements, with the fellow indie Ideal World to form IWC. RDF bought it for \u00a314m in 2005 and Clements agreed to stay for three years, pocketing \u00a32m in cash and shares. But then he announced his intention to up sticks for STV.Constructive dismissalThere was a court case, a personal and professional nadir, during which evidence revealed that he got his wife's personal assistant to hack into a colleague's email account. Clements sued for constructive dismissal, lost the case and had to pay about \u00a3450,000 in legal costs. He appealed but a peace deal was struck with RDF that meant that Clements could start at STV three months earlier. His settlement that allowed him to sign on at STV also bars him from discussing it.No profile of Clements can be complete without a question about his wife. How does he cope with being referred to as Mr Kirsty Wark? He says they now lead totally separate professional lives. \"When I am running content at STV nobody asks me 'what does Kirsty think of it?'.\"Some weeks, he adds, they say goodbye to each other on a Monday morning and don't see each other until Friday. \"We get a lot of 'we are the power couple' but when you are sitting at home on a Saturday night having a beer and watching X Factor you don't feel the most powerful couple in Scotland.\"CVAge 48Education Stranraer Academy; University of GlasgowCareer 1989-1991 freelance journalist 1990 founder and managing director, Wark Clements & Co 2004 chairman and director of specialist factual, IWC Media 2006 creative director, IWC Media 2008 director of content, STV", "tags": ["STV Group", "Television industry", "ITV plc", "BBC", "Independent production companies", "The Sun", "ITN", "Peter Fincham", "The X Factor", "Television", "Television & radio", "Media"], "title": "Stephen Brook interviews Alan Clements, the head of content at STV"},{"date": "2009-12-04T09:33:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish motorists pay significantly less than their English counterparts for car insurance, according to research published today.Price comparison website moneysupermarket.com analysed almost 1m motor insurance quotes over 12 months and found that Scotland has seven of the 10 cheapest areas in the UK for car insurance.Truro is named as the best place to live for the cheapest insurance quotes, while Penzance and Bury St Edmunds were the only only other places outside Scotland to make the list.The research found that residents in parts of Birmingham and Manchester pay the most to insure their vehicle. Areas in both cities accounted for six of the 10 most expensive places to base your car, and motorists in Manchester could find their premiums around \u00a3500 or 126% more expensive than those in Scotland.Liverpool, which previously had the dubious honour of being the worst place to base a car for insurance purposes, has just one area on the list.Steve Sweeney, head of motor insurance at moneysupermarket.com, said: \"An array of factors can determine the price you will pay for car insurance, from crime and population levels in your area to where you park your vehicle. If your area is classified as 'high risk', insurers who don't assess motor insurance on an individual basis may adopt a blanket approach and many motorists could find their insurance is quite high to compensate for this.\"If premium costs were evaluated on a case-by-case basis, many motorists would receive quotes at a better price to match their individual circumstances.\"\u00a3356, TR1, Truro, Cornwall\u00a3375, KY12, Dunfermline, Scotland\u00a3380, KY6, Glenrothes, Scotland\u00a3380, DD5, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3381, AB15, Aberdeen, Scotland\u00a3383, IP33, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk\u00a3383, FK3, Grangemouth, Scotland\u00a3385, IV30, Elgin, Scotland\u00a3386, TR18, Penzance, Cornwall\u00a3386, DD2, Dundee, Scotland\u00a3873, M13, Ardwick/Longsight/Chorlton-on-Medlock, Manchester\u00a3840, B10, Small Heath, Birmingham\u00a3821, M8, Crumpsall/Cheetham Hill, Manchester\u00a3820, L7, Edge Hill/Fairfield/Kensington, Liverpool\u00a3819, BD8, Girlington/Manningham/Lower Grange, Bradford\u00a3819, B11, Sparkhill/Tyseley, Birmingham\u00a3814, B12, Balsall Heath, Birmingham\u00a3810, B8, Washwood Heath/Ward End/Saltley, Birmingham\u00a3809, E12, Manor Park, London\u00a3805, BT12, Falls, BelfastSource: moneysupermarket.com. Quotes based on a sample of 988,742, taken between September 2008 and August 2009.\u2022 Always shop around at renewal time. Don't assume your current provider is giving you the best renewal quote. Look at several car insurance comparison sites such as Comparethemarket.com, moneysupermarket.com and the Guardian's own to see what you can save.\u2022 Buy online. Many car insurers offer discounts to customers that shop on the web.\u2022 Reduce your mileage. When applying for insurance you have to estimate the number of miles you will do each year. If you aren't travelling much you usually pay less.\u2022 You'll get a better deal if you can reduce risk of the car being damaged while you're not using it. Keep the car off the road at night in a garage or on a drive to cut your premiums.\u2022 Make sure you have an alarm and immobiliser.\u2022 Pick a car with a smaller engine. The bigger and faster the vehicle the more it will cost to insure.\u2022 Up the excess. Agreeing to pay a higher excess, such as \u00a3500 instead of \u00a3100, can reduce your premiums. Don't forget you will need to pay this in the event of a claim, so be sure you can afford it.\u2022 Add an older driver. Young men adding their mothers to their policies have seen big savings as a result. Don't be tempted to put the policy in their name though. This is called fronting and could invalidate your insurance.\u2022 Make sure you get adequate cover. As you look for the lowest price, don't be tempted to scrap things you really need. Skipping extras you can't do without \u2013 such as legal fees cover \u2013 will be a false economy if you need to claim.", "tags": ["Car insurance", "Motoring", "Insurance", "Consumer affairs", "Money", "UK news", "Manchester", "Greater Manchester"], "title": "Want cheaper car insurance? Head to Scotland"},{"date": "2009-12-01T00:05:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In theory, St Andrew's Day might have been the ideal occasion for Alex Salmond to launch Scots along the path towards the independence referendum he aims to hold a year from now. But the warm glow that the national day properly brings to all Scots cannot disguise the bleak environment in which the Scottish nationalist first minister began his campaign. Only 24 hours before Mr Salmond unveiled his white paper on independence, a poll put support for independence at a record recent low of 20%, with only 25% saying they want an early say on the union. Even allowing for the vagaries of questions that rival pollsters ask, these figures show the scale of the uphill struggle that faces Mr Salmond if he is to turn the white paper into the separatist mandate of his dreams.Ever since 2007, however, Mr Salmond has repeatedly shown that he is not a politician to be underestimated. As first minister he has made minority government work for more than two years. His biggest asset is his ability to play a weak hand in the strongest possible way. Like all guerrilla politicians, he avoids battles on open ground, knowing he would lose, and prefers to accumulate smaller victories and to endlessly provoke his opponents. Mr Salmond knows that his best chance of persuading Scots to vote for independence is to lure the UK government and the pro-UK parties into overbearing responses that send offended voters flocking to the SNP. That ambition runs through the new white paper.Like the self-described Scottish national conversation that preceded it, the white paper is a sleight of hand performed in a hall of mirrors. It affects to offer a wide range of equal options about Scottish governance, including the enhanced Holyrood powers proposed by the UK government last week in the wake of the Calman commission. It purports to be taking part in an often quite dry and technical conversation about the best place of the Scottish parliament and the Scottish government within the UK's political and revenue-raising arrangements. It gives the impression of being relaxed about the outcome from a pluralistic set of alternatives. In reality its focus is Mr Salmond's wish to persuade the Scottish electorate to vote for a proposition on independence whose precise words the white paper does not even reveal, and whose implications are rarely spelled out and are sometimes contradictory.Mr Salmond knows that the anti-independence majority at Holyrood is likely to block his referendum bill next year. That is why he is crafting it in such apparently cuddly language. He hopes that the voters will be outraged by being denied a vote on such a reasonable proposition. He will then fight the 2011 Scottish election as the man who simply wants to give the electorate its say \u2013 and hopes that he then can transform the wish for a vote into the wish for independence. Either way, these plans designedly place Mr Salmond, the SNP and the independence question at the centre of Scottish politics just at a time when Scots' minds, like minds elsewhere, are focused more on recession.If that is what Scots want then it is what they will get. There is, though, a brave and responsible alternative. Gordon Brown could go to the House of Commons next week and ask it to pass a bill for a Scottish referendum on the union. He could ensure the question that was put to the voters in that poll was simple and clear \u2013 do you want Scotland to be part of the UK or not? \u2013 rather than the tricksier formulation that the SNP apparently plans. He could require the Electoral Commission to ensure the contest was fought on a level campaign playing field of costs and propaganda, rather than with the loaded dice that Mr Salmond might use. And he could call the referendum on the day of the UK general election, thus settling the issue for the foreseeable future. Mr Brown should be a braveheart. He should call the nationalists' bluff.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Constitutional reform", "Politics", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Scotland and the union: Alex's cunning plan"},{"date": "2009-11-04T16:33:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alex Salmond's Scottish nationalist government has joined California and New York city in a global alliance of small states, city councils and major companies pressing for deep and binding cuts in CO2 emissions.The Scottish National party administration said today it had signed up to the Climate Group, a London-based not-for-profit campaign which is lobbying heavily for a far-reaching and long-term global deal on emissions at next month's climate talks in Copenhagen.The Scottish government is in part attempting to outflank the Labour-led government in London, which has refused Salmond's demands that the UK delegation should include a Scottish minister in Copenhagen. Gordon Brown has offered only to allow a Scottish civil servant to take part, arguing that the UK has to present a united and consistent front at the talks.The SNP, which runs a minority government in Scotland, has introduced some of the most ambitious climate change legislation of any comparable administration, partly under intense pressure from opposition parties at the Scottish parliament.Those include legislation requiring up to 42% cuts in CO2 emissions by 2020 and annual legally binding emissions reductions, and for the first time published line-by-line carbon emissions for \u00a333bn in core spending in its annual budget in September. Environment groups say these measures are more radical than the UK's government's policies.The SNP is now building alternative alliances with other regional and \"sub-national\" governments through the Climate Group, which includes Catalonia, California, Chicago, the Greater London Authority, North Rhine and Westphalia, Western Australia, Ontario and Quebec. Major companies who are amongst the more than 60 full members include Google, Virgin, Timberland, BSkyB, BP, IBM, Tesco and Marks and Spencer.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stephenson, made the announcement at a Climate Group event during the UN's pre-Copenhagen talks in Barcelona, and is expected to attend Copenhagen for the organisation's day of fringe events.Stephenson said: \"The Scottish government recognises the urgency of addressing climate change and is an active partner in the common desire to identify solutions, work towards adaptation and create a sustainable future.\"Luc Bas, the Climate Group's head of government relations for Europe, said Scotland had set a \"great example\" by agreeing ambitious cuts targets in its Climate Change Act, the carbon assessments in its budgets and \"strategic approach\" to climate change adaptation.\"Scotland's commitment to green energy and the economic opportunities of the low carbon economy is impressive and far-sighted. This is a great model for other countries to follow,\" he said.Some senior environmentalists have been privately very critical of Salmond's attempts to join the official UK delegation to Copenhagen, since Scotland is a minor force on the global stage, and accused him of posturing.Despite its ambitious policies, the devolved Scottish government only controls about 30% of Scotland's total CO2 outputs, which in turn account for less than 10% of the UK's emissions. The remaining 70% are influenced by European Union and UK government policies, such as on fuel taxation, VAT and aviation.Hitting the 42% cut by 2020 also requires a binding deal at Copenhagen, and Stephenson could cut that target if no deal is reached. Despite championing green energy projects, Salmond also supports new coal-fired power stations, the North Sea oil industry, and roads and airport expansion.Critics believe the Scottish government is far better able to influence regional governments or states of a similar size, rather than pretend it can challenge India, China or the US.Richard Dixon, director of the environment group WWF Scotland and a supporter of the SNP's policies on climate change, said the decision to join the Climate Group was a welcome.\"It's a perfectly sensible thing to do. Scotland shouldn't be trying to pretend to sit beside the UK. It should be sitting alongside a really good regional grouping,\" he said.", "tags": ["Climate change", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Environment", "World news", "UK news", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Global climate talks"], "title": "Scotland signs up to Climate Group"},{"date": "2009-11-03T16:50:48Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard is considering whether to interview Simon Mann when he arrives back in Britain as part of its investigation into the attempted coup for which he was jailed in Equatorial Guinea.The Old Etonian mercenary was freed from prison today after serving part of a 34-year sentence for his involvement in the 2004 plot. Equatorial Guinea's president, Teodoro Obiang, said detectives from the Met's counterterrorism command, SO15, had interviewed Mann while he served his sentence.Scotland Yard said it had been liaising with the Crown Prosecution Service over whether it had gathered enough evidence to bring charges. There are allegations that part of the plotting occurred in London, meaning Mann could face prosecution under terrorism legislation.The Met said it had \"monitored\" Mann's trial in Equatorial Guinea, where he claimed that others including Sir Mark Thatcher had been involved. Detectives visited Equatorial Guinea three times between July and October last year. They first went on 28 July, returning five days later, and again for 12 days, returning to the UK on September 17. Their final visit was from 14 to 28 October.Obiang, in an interview shortly after the detectives left last year, said Mann had co-operated with British police and had named names. He told the Mail on Sunday: \"\"Simon Mann has collaborated brilliantly with them and given them information, names and other things, which they didn't know about the case.\"We have a law that if someone behaves well or collaborates with the government then we can, in certain circumstances, pardon them or give them a reduction in their sentence. Simon Mann has collaborated with our government and the British police and if he continues to behave so well then yes, we will reduce his sentence.\"", "tags": ["Equatorial Guinea", "World news", "UK news", "Africa"], "title": "Simon Mann may face Scotland Yard questioning"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-02-14T22:54:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Westminster gears up for a \u00adpossible hung parliament, political parties are closely studying events in \u00adEdinburgh. Alex Salmond, the Scottish first \u00administer, runs a minority nationalist administration with just a one-vote cushion over Labour.In January last year, the Scottish parliament provided an object lesson in how difficult it can be to topple a minority government during an economic crisis. When Salmond failed to make the concessions demanded, Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens unexpectedly voted down his budget. Had Salmond lost a second vote he would have been forced to resign. As the next largest party, Labour would then have to try to form a government. But Labour was unpopular at Holyrood and appeared to have \u00adlittle chance of forming a ruling coalition. If Labour had failed, a costly mid-term election would have been called, allowing Salmond to pose as the noble victim to voters. His SNP would probably have won more seats. Labour and the Lib Dems blinked, and allowed Salmond's budget to pass.These events give the Lib Dems confidence about their prospects of grinding concessions out of a minority government, and may well make Labour feel very uneasy about its options if David Cameron comes out ahead in Westminster.There are important differences between Holyrood and the Commons, however. Elected by proportional representation for a fixed term of four years, the Scottish parliament is designed to promote coalitions. Holyrood has never had one party with an overall majority. Compromise is built into the way \u00adHolyrood is run. Over the last three years, Salmond's opponents have \u00addelicately gauged when and if to vote down an SNP measure. ", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Minority government: lessons from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-02-14T22:54:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Westminster gears up for a \u00adpossible hung parliament, political parties are closely studying events in \u00adEdinburgh. Alex Salmond, the Scottish first \u00administer, runs a minority nationalist administration with just a one-vote cushion over Labour.In January last year, the Scottish parliament provided an object lesson in how difficult it can be to topple a minority government during an economic crisis. When Salmond failed to make the concessions demanded, Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens unexpectedly voted down his budget. Had Salmond lost a second vote he would have been forced to resign. As the next largest party, Labour would then have to try to form a government. But Labour was unpopular at Holyrood and appeared to have \u00adlittle chance of forming a ruling coalition. If Labour had failed, a costly mid-term election would have been called, allowing Salmond to pose as the noble victim to voters. His SNP would probably have won more seats. Labour and the Lib Dems blinked, and allowed Salmond's budget to pass.These events give the Lib Dems confidence about their prospects of grinding concessions out of a minority government, and may well make Labour feel very uneasy about its options if David Cameron comes out ahead in Westminster.There are important differences between Holyrood and the Commons, however. Elected by proportional representation for a fixed term of four years, the Scottish parliament is designed to promote coalitions. Holyrood has never had one party with an overall majority. Compromise is built into the way \u00adHolyrood is run. Over the last three years, Salmond's opponents have \u00addelicately gauged when and if to vote down an SNP measure. ", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Minority government: lessons from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-24T22:58:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two climbers died today when they fell 1,500ft after setting off an avalanche on one of Scotland's most dangerous mountains near Glencoe, Scotland.The men were climbing with another companion who escaped being engulfed by the avalanche and being carried down the steep ridge in an area known as Curved Ridge at Buachaille Etive Mor.The group had finished their climb and were making their descent when the accident occurred. Three people died last year in the same area.\"They were not far from the exact spot,\" said John Grieve, leader of Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team. \"But, ironically, they had thought that exact route was too dangerous and were making their way in what they thought was a safer descent. The two men in front set off an avalanche and they fell 1,500ft down the steep icy face.\"Another group of climbers finished the descent with the third man, hoping to find his two companions.\"They found avalanche debris and a hand sticking out of the snow and dug out the two men.But they were obviously dead,\" Grieve said.A Northern Constabulary spokesman said no further details would be released until all next of kin had been informed.The Glencoe avalanche was the second suspected avalanche to happen in Scotland yesterday. A man was also injured in an avalanche at Cic Hut on the north face of Ben Nevis. He was found in Coire Na Ciste after falling several hundred feet from an ice climb.Rescue teams, including a helicopter, airlifted him to Belford Hospital in Fort William with serious injuries. He is expected to be transferred to the Southern General Hospital in Glasgow for further treatment.Police said inquiries into the accident were continuing.The area commander chief inspector, John Chisholm, said: \"We are expecting more severe weather and heavy snowfalls over the next couple of days. Any climbers going on to the hills should check the latest reports issued by the Scottish Avalanche Information Service and the latest weather reports.\"In January last year, three men were killed in an avalanche in the same area. Eamonn Murphy, 61, from Carrickfergus, Co Antrim, and his brother John Murphy, 63, from Portrush, Co Antrim, died along with Brian Murray, 46, from Monifieth, Tayside, when they were swept away by thousands of tonnes of snow on Buachaille Etive Mor.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Weather", "Avalanches"], "title": "Two mountain climbers die in Scotland avalanche"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-02-14T22:54:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Westminster gears up for a \u00adpossible hung parliament, political parties are closely studying events in \u00adEdinburgh. Alex Salmond, the Scottish first \u00administer, runs a minority nationalist administration with just a one-vote cushion over Labour.In January last year, the Scottish parliament provided an object lesson in how difficult it can be to topple a minority government during an economic crisis. When Salmond failed to make the concessions demanded, Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens unexpectedly voted down his budget. Had Salmond lost a second vote he would have been forced to resign. As the next largest party, Labour would then have to try to form a government. But Labour was unpopular at Holyrood and appeared to have \u00adlittle chance of forming a ruling coalition. If Labour had failed, a costly mid-term election would have been called, allowing Salmond to pose as the noble victim to voters. His SNP would probably have won more seats. Labour and the Lib Dems blinked, and allowed Salmond's budget to pass.These events give the Lib Dems confidence about their prospects of grinding concessions out of a minority government, and may well make Labour feel very uneasy about its options if David Cameron comes out ahead in Westminster.There are important differences between Holyrood and the Commons, however. Elected by proportional representation for a fixed term of four years, the Scottish parliament is designed to promote coalitions. Holyrood has never had one party with an overall majority. Compromise is built into the way \u00adHolyrood is run. Over the last three years, Salmond's opponents have \u00addelicately gauged when and if to vote down an SNP measure. ", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Minority government: lessons from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-24T22:58:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two climbers died today when they fell 1,500ft after setting off an avalanche on one of Scotland's most dangerous mountains near Glencoe, Scotland.The men were climbing with another companion who escaped being engulfed by the avalanche and being carried down the steep ridge in an area known as Curved Ridge at Buachaille Etive Mor.The group had finished their climb and were making their descent when the accident occurred. Three people died last year in the same area.\"They were not far from the exact spot,\" said John Grieve, leader of Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team. \"But, ironically, they had thought that exact route was too dangerous and were making their way in what they thought was a safer descent. The two men in front set off an avalanche and they fell 1,500ft down the steep icy face.\"Another group of climbers finished the descent with the third man, hoping to find his two companions.\"They found avalanche debris and a hand sticking out of the snow and dug out the two men.But they were obviously dead,\" Grieve said.A Northern Constabulary spokesman said no further details would be released until all next of kin had been informed.The Glencoe avalanche was the second suspected avalanche to happen in Scotland yesterday. A man was also injured in an avalanche at Cic Hut on the north face of Ben Nevis. He was found in Coire Na Ciste after falling several hundred feet from an ice climb.Rescue teams, including a helicopter, airlifted him to Belford Hospital in Fort William with serious injuries. He is expected to be transferred to the Southern General Hospital in Glasgow for further treatment.Police said inquiries into the accident were continuing.The area commander chief inspector, John Chisholm, said: \"We are expecting more severe weather and heavy snowfalls over the next couple of days. Any climbers going on to the hills should check the latest reports issued by the Scottish Avalanche Information Service and the latest weather reports.\"In January last year, three men were killed in an avalanche in the same area. Eamonn Murphy, 61, from Carrickfergus, Co Antrim, and his brother John Murphy, 63, from Portrush, Co Antrim, died along with Brian Murray, 46, from Monifieth, Tayside, when they were swept away by thousands of tonnes of snow on Buachaille Etive Mor.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Weather", "Avalanches"], "title": "Two mountain climbers die in Scotland avalanche"},{"date": "2010-02-16T09:44:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Up to 30cm (12in) of snow was expected to fall in parts of Scotland today as the latest band of severe wintery weather arrived in the UK.The Met Office issued a series of warnings for heavy snow and icy roads in northern Scotland and mid-Wales.The effects of the snow in Scotland are likely to be compounded by strong winds, the Met Office forecaster, Philip Avery, said.Further south, a band of heavy and persistent rain is sitting across much of southern England bringing up to 3cm of rain and 2-5cm of snow on high ground in the Chilterns and South Downs.\"Northern Scotland is the greatest concern where the snow keeps on coming and is blown around by high winds,\" Avery said.The snow will clear from northern Scotland overnight leaving a cold night and temperatures of around -2C. The weather front will continue to bring rain to southern areas overnight and gradually fizzle out tomorrow.", "tags": ["Weather", "Scotland", "Wales", "UK news"], "title": "More heavy snowfalls expected in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-02-14T22:54:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Westminster gears up for a \u00adpossible hung parliament, political parties are closely studying events in \u00adEdinburgh. Alex Salmond, the Scottish first \u00administer, runs a minority nationalist administration with just a one-vote cushion over Labour.In January last year, the Scottish parliament provided an object lesson in how difficult it can be to topple a minority government during an economic crisis. When Salmond failed to make the concessions demanded, Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens unexpectedly voted down his budget. Had Salmond lost a second vote he would have been forced to resign. As the next largest party, Labour would then have to try to form a government. But Labour was unpopular at Holyrood and appeared to have \u00adlittle chance of forming a ruling coalition. If Labour had failed, a costly mid-term election would have been called, allowing Salmond to pose as the noble victim to voters. His SNP would probably have won more seats. Labour and the Lib Dems blinked, and allowed Salmond's budget to pass.These events give the Lib Dems confidence about their prospects of grinding concessions out of a minority government, and may well make Labour feel very uneasy about its options if David Cameron comes out ahead in Westminster.There are important differences between Holyrood and the Commons, however. Elected by proportional representation for a fixed term of four years, the Scottish parliament is designed to promote coalitions. Holyrood has never had one party with an overall majority. Compromise is built into the way \u00adHolyrood is run. Over the last three years, Salmond's opponents have \u00addelicately gauged when and if to vote down an SNP measure. ", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Minority government: lessons from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-24T22:58:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two climbers died today when they fell 1,500ft after setting off an avalanche on one of Scotland's most dangerous mountains near Glencoe, Scotland.The men were climbing with another companion who escaped being engulfed by the avalanche and being carried down the steep ridge in an area known as Curved Ridge at Buachaille Etive Mor.The group had finished their climb and were making their descent when the accident occurred. Three people died last year in the same area.\"They were not far from the exact spot,\" said John Grieve, leader of Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team. \"But, ironically, they had thought that exact route was too dangerous and were making their way in what they thought was a safer descent. The two men in front set off an avalanche and they fell 1,500ft down the steep icy face.\"Another group of climbers finished the descent with the third man, hoping to find his two companions.\"They found avalanche debris and a hand sticking out of the snow and dug out the two men.But they were obviously dead,\" Grieve said.A Northern Constabulary spokesman said no further details would be released until all next of kin had been informed.The Glencoe avalanche was the second suspected avalanche to happen in Scotland yesterday. A man was also injured in an avalanche at Cic Hut on the north face of Ben Nevis. He was found in Coire Na Ciste after falling several hundred feet from an ice climb.Rescue teams, including a helicopter, airlifted him to Belford Hospital in Fort William with serious injuries. He is expected to be transferred to the Southern General Hospital in Glasgow for further treatment.Police said inquiries into the accident were continuing.The area commander chief inspector, John Chisholm, said: \"We are expecting more severe weather and heavy snowfalls over the next couple of days. Any climbers going on to the hills should check the latest reports issued by the Scottish Avalanche Information Service and the latest weather reports.\"In January last year, three men were killed in an avalanche in the same area. Eamonn Murphy, 61, from Carrickfergus, Co Antrim, and his brother John Murphy, 63, from Portrush, Co Antrim, died along with Brian Murray, 46, from Monifieth, Tayside, when they were swept away by thousands of tonnes of snow on Buachaille Etive Mor.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Weather", "Avalanches"], "title": "Two mountain climbers die in Scotland avalanche"},{"date": "2010-02-16T09:44:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Up to 30cm (12in) of snow was expected to fall in parts of Scotland today as the latest band of severe wintery weather arrived in the UK.The Met Office issued a series of warnings for heavy snow and icy roads in northern Scotland and mid-Wales.The effects of the snow in Scotland are likely to be compounded by strong winds, the Met Office forecaster, Philip Avery, said.Further south, a band of heavy and persistent rain is sitting across much of southern England bringing up to 3cm of rain and 2-5cm of snow on high ground in the Chilterns and South Downs.\"Northern Scotland is the greatest concern where the snow keeps on coming and is blown around by high winds,\" Avery said.The snow will clear from northern Scotland overnight leaving a cold night and temperatures of around -2C. The weather front will continue to bring rain to southern areas overnight and gradually fizzle out tomorrow.", "tags": ["Weather", "Scotland", "Wales", "UK news"], "title": "More heavy snowfalls expected in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-15T10:23:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I've found the holy grail of the knights of Monsalvat, from Wagner's Parsifal. And I found it not in northern Spain, as per Wagner's libretto, but in the far north-west of Scotland, and one of the world's greatest mountain-forms, Suilven \u2013 at least according to the last stanza of Norman MacCaig's poem Moment Musical in Assynt:I listen through my eyes and see through thatMellifluous din of shapes my masterpieceOf masterpieces:One sandstone chord that holds up time in space \u2013Sforzando Suilven reared on his ground base.That is the single most compact and complete verse about the relationship between Gurnemanz sings to Parsifal, just before the grail scene in the first act of Wagner's Parsifal:\"Du siehst, mein Sohn,/ zum Raum wird hier die Zeit.\" (\"You see, my son,/here time becomes space\").Wagner never made it to the Highlands of Scotland; if he did, he would have found a place that sings a millennia-old song of time becoming space \u2013 the holy grail of his last, and most conceptually and spiritually ambitious opera.", "tags": ["Richard Wagner", "Opera", "Classical music", "Poetry", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner's holy grail found - in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-02-14T22:54:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Westminster gears up for a \u00adpossible hung parliament, political parties are closely studying events in \u00adEdinburgh. Alex Salmond, the Scottish first \u00administer, runs a minority nationalist administration with just a one-vote cushion over Labour.In January last year, the Scottish parliament provided an object lesson in how difficult it can be to topple a minority government during an economic crisis. When Salmond failed to make the concessions demanded, Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens unexpectedly voted down his budget. Had Salmond lost a second vote he would have been forced to resign. As the next largest party, Labour would then have to try to form a government. But Labour was unpopular at Holyrood and appeared to have \u00adlittle chance of forming a ruling coalition. If Labour had failed, a costly mid-term election would have been called, allowing Salmond to pose as the noble victim to voters. His SNP would probably have won more seats. Labour and the Lib Dems blinked, and allowed Salmond's budget to pass.These events give the Lib Dems confidence about their prospects of grinding concessions out of a minority government, and may well make Labour feel very uneasy about its options if David Cameron comes out ahead in Westminster.There are important differences between Holyrood and the Commons, however. Elected by proportional representation for a fixed term of four years, the Scottish parliament is designed to promote coalitions. Holyrood has never had one party with an overall majority. Compromise is built into the way \u00adHolyrood is run. Over the last three years, Salmond's opponents have \u00addelicately gauged when and if to vote down an SNP measure. ", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Minority government: lessons from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-24T22:58:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two climbers died today when they fell 1,500ft after setting off an avalanche on one of Scotland's most dangerous mountains near Glencoe, Scotland.The men were climbing with another companion who escaped being engulfed by the avalanche and being carried down the steep ridge in an area known as Curved Ridge at Buachaille Etive Mor.The group had finished their climb and were making their descent when the accident occurred. Three people died last year in the same area.\"They were not far from the exact spot,\" said John Grieve, leader of Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team. \"But, ironically, they had thought that exact route was too dangerous and were making their way in what they thought was a safer descent. The two men in front set off an avalanche and they fell 1,500ft down the steep icy face.\"Another group of climbers finished the descent with the third man, hoping to find his two companions.\"They found avalanche debris and a hand sticking out of the snow and dug out the two men.But they were obviously dead,\" Grieve said.A Northern Constabulary spokesman said no further details would be released until all next of kin had been informed.The Glencoe avalanche was the second suspected avalanche to happen in Scotland yesterday. A man was also injured in an avalanche at Cic Hut on the north face of Ben Nevis. He was found in Coire Na Ciste after falling several hundred feet from an ice climb.Rescue teams, including a helicopter, airlifted him to Belford Hospital in Fort William with serious injuries. He is expected to be transferred to the Southern General Hospital in Glasgow for further treatment.Police said inquiries into the accident were continuing.The area commander chief inspector, John Chisholm, said: \"We are expecting more severe weather and heavy snowfalls over the next couple of days. Any climbers going on to the hills should check the latest reports issued by the Scottish Avalanche Information Service and the latest weather reports.\"In January last year, three men were killed in an avalanche in the same area. Eamonn Murphy, 61, from Carrickfergus, Co Antrim, and his brother John Murphy, 63, from Portrush, Co Antrim, died along with Brian Murray, 46, from Monifieth, Tayside, when they were swept away by thousands of tonnes of snow on Buachaille Etive Mor.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Weather", "Avalanches"], "title": "Two mountain climbers die in Scotland avalanche"},{"date": "2010-02-16T09:44:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Up to 30cm (12in) of snow was expected to fall in parts of Scotland today as the latest band of severe wintery weather arrived in the UK.The Met Office issued a series of warnings for heavy snow and icy roads in northern Scotland and mid-Wales.The effects of the snow in Scotland are likely to be compounded by strong winds, the Met Office forecaster, Philip Avery, said.Further south, a band of heavy and persistent rain is sitting across much of southern England bringing up to 3cm of rain and 2-5cm of snow on high ground in the Chilterns and South Downs.\"Northern Scotland is the greatest concern where the snow keeps on coming and is blown around by high winds,\" Avery said.The snow will clear from northern Scotland overnight leaving a cold night and temperatures of around -2C. The weather front will continue to bring rain to southern areas overnight and gradually fizzle out tomorrow.", "tags": ["Weather", "Scotland", "Wales", "UK news"], "title": "More heavy snowfalls expected in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-15T10:23:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I've found the holy grail of the knights of Monsalvat, from Wagner's Parsifal. And I found it not in northern Spain, as per Wagner's libretto, but in the far north-west of Scotland, and one of the world's greatest mountain-forms, Suilven \u2013 at least according to the last stanza of Norman MacCaig's poem Moment Musical in Assynt:I listen through my eyes and see through thatMellifluous din of shapes my masterpieceOf masterpieces:One sandstone chord that holds up time in space \u2013Sforzando Suilven reared on his ground base.That is the single most compact and complete verse about the relationship between Gurnemanz sings to Parsifal, just before the grail scene in the first act of Wagner's Parsifal:\"Du siehst, mein Sohn,/ zum Raum wird hier die Zeit.\" (\"You see, my son,/here time becomes space\").Wagner never made it to the Highlands of Scotland; if he did, he would have found a place that sings a millennia-old song of time becoming space \u2013 the holy grail of his last, and most conceptually and spiritually ambitious opera.", "tags": ["Richard Wagner", "Opera", "Classical music", "Poetry", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner's holy grail found - in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-01-09T00:10:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it? A new decade, a new life. I can think of no finer place to start both. What a place. I don't think I've been anywhere quite so remote in Britain before. Miles and miles, hours and hours of driving. For you ignoramuses who have no clue where we are, look north to Glasgow, go past, keep going, keep going, north and west, almost to the top of the entire country, woah, too far. Back down a bit. Assynt is the two-headed peninsula just above Ullapool, a land of ancient rocks, golden eagles, deer as common as cows, and raw and strange-shaped mountains with poetic names \u2013 Quinag, Canisp, Suilven, C\u00f9l M\u00f2r \u2013 which, while breathtaking, are oddly less well known than the Scottish landscapes that routinely appear on tins of shortbread. My guess is they'd probably like to keep it that way. They're a feisty lot round here. In the 90s some local crofters sensationally seized back land snatched more than a century ago by the evil lairds in the Highland Clearances. Worth fighting for, this landscape.The case against I'll repeat: it's very remote. Wild, wild weather. Property is sparse; development tightly controlled.Well connected? Let's just say you will need a car. Roads are often single track. Rail is a 90-minute drive away in Kyle of Lochalsh; planes up to two and half hours away in Inverness. Bliss.Schools Lochinver primary \"performs well overall\", says HMIE, and Stoer and Achiltibuie are \"good\". Ullapool High School is \"very good\" at meeting learning needs.Hang out at The magnificent Drumbeg Stores for provisions. The Caberfeidh in Lochinver for a good night out. The Albannach up the road for Michelin-starred venison.Where to buy Settlements are small \u2013 Lochinver's as big as it gets \u2013 so property is thin on the ground. Much of the land is controlled by big landowners (contact a land manager such as CKD Galbraith, 01463 224343) or community landowners such as Assynt Crofters Trust\u00a0(01571 855298) or Assynt Foundation (01571 844100). For advice, contact one of them, the\u00a0Crofters Commission or an estate agent: try Ewan, Harris & Co (01862 810686).Market values Modern two-bed detacheds, around \u00a3135,000; a two-bed flat, around \u00a380,000. A two-bed former croft, around \u00a3160,000.Bargain of the week... The afore-mentioned Ewan, Harris has a two-bed croft in Culkein, needing modernisation, for \u00a3140,000.Live in Assynt? Join the debate at\u00a0theguardian.com/letsmovetoMargaret MacDonald \"I got tired of towns. I moved to Inchnadamph 37 years ago \u2013 it's a small community, just five of us, so we all know each other well. But Inverness is only an hour and a half away for shopping, and you can get a mobile signal down by the loch.\"Chrissy Boyd \"The mobile tea bar at Stoer Point\u00a0next to\u00a0Stevenson's lighthouse. It has one of the\u00a0most specatcular views in Scotland, with dolphins, porpoises and whales commonly rounding the headland.\"\u2022 Do you live in Machynlleth, Powys? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, please write, by Tuesday, 12 January 2010, to lets.move@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Property", "Homes", "Money", "Life and style", "House prices"], "title": "Let's move to Assynt, Sutherland, Scotland"},{"date": "2010-03-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland has produced some shocks for Labour during the 2005 parliament, with the SNP coming first in the elections for the Scottish Parliament in 2007 and the European Parliament in 2009, and the loss of Glasgow East in a 2008 by-election. However, it has also had some good news for Gordon Brown with two strong Labour showings in by-elections in Glenrothes and Glasgow North East. The signs are that Scotland will be one of Labour's better areas in 2010. The SNP government remains broadly popular but voters regard Holyrood and Westminster elections as being different, and when they see the choice as Labour or Conservative government most Scots favour Labour. The Conservatives still seem a weakened force, particularly in elections which are not proportional. While they should do better than their existing holding of one Westminster seat, their Commons delegation could well still fit into a taxi even if the party wins the UK election. Marginal Dumfries and Galloway is their top target from Labour, but beyond that they have shadowy hopes for Stirling and Edinburgh South, and one or two more including David Steel's old Borders seat of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk from the Lib Dems.While the SNP won a haul of constituency seats from Labour in 2007, the different political context and different boundaries make it much harder for them to gain much in 2010 and Labour should only suffer a couple of losses from this direction \u2013 Ochil, Dundee West and Kilmarnock & Loudoun being most plausible. Labour will be bidding to recover Glasgow East from the Nationalists.After a strong showing in 2005, the Scottish Lib Dems will probably see a general fall in their vote, with seats vulnerable to the Conservatives and the SNP (Argyll & Bute). However, local strength makes them challengers to Labour in some middle class urban seats like Edinburgh South and Aberdeen South.Ochil & South Perthshire has the distinction of sending its MP to Westminster with the lowest share of any MP in 2005 \u2013 31.4 per cent of the vote. Labour's Gordon Banks won the seat with a narrow majority over the SNP, with the Conservatives not completely out of contention either. It is a mixture of the small towns of Clackmannanshire with some Perthshire countryside. It is quite possible that it will be won with less than a third of the vote again in 2010.Renfrewshire East was won on a huge swing in 1997 by the young Labour candidate Jim Murphy. Now secretary of state for Scotland, Murphy faces his most serious electoral test in this suburban seat just south of Glasgow as the Conservatives try to regain what was formerly their safest seat in Scotland and unseat one of Labour's Scottish leaders.Alex Salmond steps down from his Westminster seat at Banff & Buchan to concentrate on his job as First Minister of Scotland. His successor in this safe SNP seat will be Eilidh Whiteford. Whiteford is an academic expert on Scottish literature and a voluntary sector campaigner on poverty and carers. As a good Nationalist she hopes for a short stay in Westminster ending with independence rather than losing the seat, but will no doubt make an impact in the meantime.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Labour", "Politics", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Jim Murphy", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland: general election guide"},{"date": "2010-02-14T22:54:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Westminster gears up for a \u00adpossible hung parliament, political parties are closely studying events in \u00adEdinburgh. Alex Salmond, the Scottish first \u00administer, runs a minority nationalist administration with just a one-vote cushion over Labour.In January last year, the Scottish parliament provided an object lesson in how difficult it can be to topple a minority government during an economic crisis. When Salmond failed to make the concessions demanded, Labour, the Lib Dems and the Greens unexpectedly voted down his budget. Had Salmond lost a second vote he would have been forced to resign. As the next largest party, Labour would then have to try to form a government. But Labour was unpopular at Holyrood and appeared to have \u00adlittle chance of forming a ruling coalition. If Labour had failed, a costly mid-term election would have been called, allowing Salmond to pose as the noble victim to voters. His SNP would probably have won more seats. Labour and the Lib Dems blinked, and allowed Salmond's budget to pass.These events give the Lib Dems confidence about their prospects of grinding concessions out of a minority government, and may well make Labour feel very uneasy about its options if David Cameron comes out ahead in Westminster.There are important differences between Holyrood and the Commons, however. Elected by proportional representation for a fixed term of four years, the Scottish parliament is designed to promote coalitions. Holyrood has never had one party with an overall majority. Compromise is built into the way \u00adHolyrood is run. Over the last three years, Salmond's opponents have \u00addelicately gauged when and if to vote down an SNP measure. ", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Minority government: lessons from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-24T22:58:50Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two climbers died today when they fell 1,500ft after setting off an avalanche on one of Scotland's most dangerous mountains near Glencoe, Scotland.The men were climbing with another companion who escaped being engulfed by the avalanche and being carried down the steep ridge in an area known as Curved Ridge at Buachaille Etive Mor.The group had finished their climb and were making their descent when the accident occurred. Three people died last year in the same area.\"They were not far from the exact spot,\" said John Grieve, leader of Glencoe Mountain Rescue Team. \"But, ironically, they had thought that exact route was too dangerous and were making their way in what they thought was a safer descent. The two men in front set off an avalanche and they fell 1,500ft down the steep icy face.\"Another group of climbers finished the descent with the third man, hoping to find his two companions.\"They found avalanche debris and a hand sticking out of the snow and dug out the two men.But they were obviously dead,\" Grieve said.A Northern Constabulary spokesman said no further details would be released until all next of kin had been informed.The Glencoe avalanche was the second suspected avalanche to happen in Scotland yesterday. A man was also injured in an avalanche at Cic Hut on the north face of Ben Nevis. He was found in Coire Na Ciste after falling several hundred feet from an ice climb.Rescue teams, including a helicopter, airlifted him to Belford Hospital in Fort William with serious injuries. He is expected to be transferred to the Southern General Hospital in Glasgow for further treatment.Police said inquiries into the accident were continuing.The area commander chief inspector, John Chisholm, said: \"We are expecting more severe weather and heavy snowfalls over the next couple of days. Any climbers going on to the hills should check the latest reports issued by the Scottish Avalanche Information Service and the latest weather reports.\"In January last year, three men were killed in an avalanche in the same area. Eamonn Murphy, 61, from Carrickfergus, Co Antrim, and his brother John Murphy, 63, from Portrush, Co Antrim, died along with Brian Murray, 46, from Monifieth, Tayside, when they were swept away by thousands of tonnes of snow on Buachaille Etive Mor.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Weather", "Avalanches"], "title": "Two mountain climbers die in Scotland avalanche"},{"date": "2010-02-16T09:44:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Up to 30cm (12in) of snow was expected to fall in parts of Scotland today as the latest band of severe wintery weather arrived in the UK.The Met Office issued a series of warnings for heavy snow and icy roads in northern Scotland and mid-Wales.The effects of the snow in Scotland are likely to be compounded by strong winds, the Met Office forecaster, Philip Avery, said.Further south, a band of heavy and persistent rain is sitting across much of southern England bringing up to 3cm of rain and 2-5cm of snow on high ground in the Chilterns and South Downs.\"Northern Scotland is the greatest concern where the snow keeps on coming and is blown around by high winds,\" Avery said.The snow will clear from northern Scotland overnight leaving a cold night and temperatures of around -2C. The weather front will continue to bring rain to southern areas overnight and gradually fizzle out tomorrow.", "tags": ["Weather", "Scotland", "Wales", "UK news"], "title": "More heavy snowfalls expected in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-02-15T10:23:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I've found the holy grail of the knights of Monsalvat, from Wagner's Parsifal. And I found it not in northern Spain, as per Wagner's libretto, but in the far north-west of Scotland, and one of the world's greatest mountain-forms, Suilven \u2013 at least according to the last stanza of Norman MacCaig's poem Moment Musical in Assynt:I listen through my eyes and see through thatMellifluous din of shapes my masterpieceOf masterpieces:One sandstone chord that holds up time in space \u2013Sforzando Suilven reared on his ground base.That is the single most compact and complete verse about the relationship between Gurnemanz sings to Parsifal, just before the grail scene in the first act of Wagner's Parsifal:\"Du siehst, mein Sohn,/ zum Raum wird hier die Zeit.\" (\"You see, my son,/here time becomes space\").Wagner never made it to the Highlands of Scotland; if he did, he would have found a place that sings a millennia-old song of time becoming space \u2013 the holy grail of his last, and most conceptually and spiritually ambitious opera.", "tags": ["Richard Wagner", "Opera", "Classical music", "Poetry", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner's holy grail found - in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-01-09T00:10:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What's going for it? A new decade, a new life. I can think of no finer place to start both. What a place. I don't think I've been anywhere quite so remote in Britain before. Miles and miles, hours and hours of driving. For you ignoramuses who have no clue where we are, look north to Glasgow, go past, keep going, keep going, north and west, almost to the top of the entire country, woah, too far. Back down a bit. Assynt is the two-headed peninsula just above Ullapool, a land of ancient rocks, golden eagles, deer as common as cows, and raw and strange-shaped mountains with poetic names \u2013 Quinag, Canisp, Suilven, C\u00f9l M\u00f2r \u2013 which, while breathtaking, are oddly less well known than the Scottish landscapes that routinely appear on tins of shortbread. My guess is they'd probably like to keep it that way. They're a feisty lot round here. In the 90s some local crofters sensationally seized back land snatched more than a century ago by the evil lairds in the Highland Clearances. Worth fighting for, this landscape.The case against I'll repeat: it's very remote. Wild, wild weather. Property is sparse; development tightly controlled.Well connected? Let's just say you will need a car. Roads are often single track. Rail is a 90-minute drive away in Kyle of Lochalsh; planes up to two and half hours away in Inverness. Bliss.Schools Lochinver primary \"performs well overall\", says HMIE, and Stoer and Achiltibuie are \"good\". Ullapool High School is \"very good\" at meeting learning needs.Hang out at The magnificent Drumbeg Stores for provisions. The Caberfeidh in Lochinver for a good night out. The Albannach up the road for Michelin-starred venison.Where to buy Settlements are small \u2013 Lochinver's as big as it gets \u2013 so property is thin on the ground. Much of the land is controlled by big landowners (contact a land manager such as CKD Galbraith, 01463 224343) or community landowners such as Assynt Crofters Trust\u00a0(01571 855298) or Assynt Foundation (01571 844100). For advice, contact one of them, the\u00a0Crofters Commission or an estate agent: try Ewan, Harris & Co (01862 810686).Market values Modern two-bed detacheds, around \u00a3135,000; a two-bed flat, around \u00a380,000. A two-bed former croft, around \u00a3160,000.Bargain of the week... The afore-mentioned Ewan, Harris has a two-bed croft in Culkein, needing modernisation, for \u00a3140,000.Live in Assynt? Join the debate at\u00a0theguardian.com/letsmovetoMargaret MacDonald \"I got tired of towns. I moved to Inchnadamph 37 years ago \u2013 it's a small community, just five of us, so we all know each other well. But Inverness is only an hour and a half away for shopping, and you can get a mobile signal down by the loch.\"Chrissy Boyd \"The mobile tea bar at Stoer Point\u00a0next to\u00a0Stevenson's lighthouse. It has one of the\u00a0most specatcular views in Scotland, with dolphins, porpoises and whales commonly rounding the headland.\"\u2022 Do you live in Machynlleth, Powys? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, please write, by Tuesday, 12 January 2010, to lets.move@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Property", "Homes", "Money", "Life and style", "House prices"], "title": "Let's move to Assynt, Sutherland, Scotland"},{"date": "2010-01-06T17:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There is no denying the fact that high-ranking Israeli officials are at risk of being arrested for war crimes if they travel to the UK.It's difficult to convey how high passions about this state of affairs run on both sides of the debate, but one thing is clear. The question of whether things should change has not so far been a question of law. The argument has been ignited and fuelled entirely by questions of politics.The political factors are well rehearsed. Foreign Office officials describe the effect of Tzipi Livni's possible arrest for example, as highly damaging for diplomatic relations with Israel and the UK's ability to play a useful role in peace negotiations. There is undeniable embarrassment for our ministers if they are forced to look on, helpless, as their friends and colleagues from Israel languish in police custody because of a warrant which, it's true to say, would not necessarily even lead to charges being brought.This is where the legal factors come in. That helplessness arises not from a problem with the law, but the fact that it works. The UK's independent judiciary have, on occasions at least, been applying the law irrespective of its potential for political inconvenience. Israel \u2013 whose supreme court has become a world leader in human rights jurisprudence, often to the great inconvenience of its own government \u2013 is perfectly familiar with this process. There is nothing for politicians to apologise for because, as everyone understands, the courts are a separate branch of state and not in any way under the executive's control.So when a district judge at Westminster magistrates' court issues an arrest warrant, he or she is doing what judges do in any other case \u2013 forming a view on the evidence against the person in question, and applying the law that has been enacted by parliament.The law in this case creates \"universal jurisdiction\", which enables a person to be arrested in this country for an alleged offence committed abroad. It's unfortunate that the only high-profile cases of attempted arrests for war crimes have been of Israeli officials, because the purpose of the law is to provide a means of enforcing penalties for the most serious international crimes \u2013 war crimes, torture, genocide \u2013 committed anywhere. Weakening the ability of our courts to do so would protect not only Israelis but leaders across the world, in countries whom our government is less fond of diplomatically, who have been accused of violating rights on a massive scale.Yesterday the attorney general gave her clearest indication yet that weakening the ability of the UK's courts to enforce universal jurisdiction is exactly what the government is planning to do.\"The government is looking urgently at ways in which the UK system might be changed to avoid this situation arising again,\" she said, speaking at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem yesterday and referring obviously to the recent attempts to obtain a warrant for Livni and Ehud Barak. \"[The government] is determined that Israel's leaders should always be able to travel freely to the UK,\" she added.This announcement was unambiguously a political one \u2013 the attorney general did not in any way address the legal or constitutional implications of her assurance. But these implications are profound. What the government is suggesting is not so much changing the law, as interfering with the procedure. Instead of allowing a judge to use their discretion by deciding whether the evidence is sufficient to issue a warrant \u2013 the fundamental \"safeguard\" which has already prevented warrants being issued in the past, the attorney general would have to agree.In case there is any doubt who the attorney general is, it's worth remembering that she is a cabinet member in all but name, and the government's chief legal adviser. To have such a senior member of the executive involved in the nascent stages of cases is nothing short of interference with the judicial process.Such interference would be serious regardless of the circumstances. But the fact is, this comes at a time when there is near consensus that the direct interference of the executive in individual cases is an anathema to the rule of law. This was the verdict of the high court in the BAE case \u2013 where the attorney general's interference in a Serious Fraud Office prosecution to avoid damaging relations with Saudi Arabia was described as painting \"so bleak a picture of the impotence of the law\" that it \"invites at least dismay, if not outrage\".Even the government acknowledges that it is not constitutionally sustainable for the attorney general to have a role in individual cases, announcing last year that the holder of the post would no longer have a direct role in all but the most sensitive for national security.Yet here we have an attempt to give the attorney general not only increased powers to interfere in individual cases, but at an unprecedented stage of proceedings. Because when it comes to the decision as to whether charges should be brought \u2013 which is a distinct and subsequent stage to a warrant being issued \u2013 the attorney general is already required to consent.If the government seriously wishes to advance this kind of role for the attorney general in war crimes cases, and consider the range of legal and constitutional issues this involves, then bring it on.But for the attorney general to make off-the-cuff announcements in Israel of a purely political nature about what is in reality a serious question of domestic law, without any wider consultation in the UK \u2026 well it's where another of the attorney's job descriptions springs to mind: \"guardian of the rule of law\". Maybe that's the one she should focus on in future.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Lady Scotland", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Law", "UK news", "Israel", "Middle East and North Africa", "War crimes", "World news"], "title": "Lady Scotland opens a can of worms | Afua Hirsch"},{"date": "2010-06-23T11:29:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon said that pilots with the systems have proved successful and they will now be rolled out across Scotland, at a cost of \u00a31.5m.The systems were piloted in four health board areas: Lothian, Fife, Tayside and Grampian. The Scottish Government said an evaluation of the pilots demonstrated that upgraded and integrated bed management and infection control IT systems can reduce infections.\"This is about making the two systems to control infections and beds talk to each other,\" a spokesperson for the Scottish Government told SmartHealthcare.com.\"For example if a patient in ward two has C. difficile, you can track where they have been. And if someone has an infection you may want to treat them in isolation, but they can be treated with other patients. The IT can help to organise the co-treatment of patients with the same infection.\"Sturgeon said: \"Using the latest IT systems and ensuring these are fully integrated will allow health boards to better manage their beds to reduce the risk of infections spreading.\"She added: \"I am confident that these measures will contribute to further reduced infection rates.\"Scotland's hospitals boards are being asked to reduce infection rates by at least 50% among people over 65 by the end of March 2011. A new and more stringent target for tackling C. difficile is also being introduced.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Health", "Applications"], "title": "Scotland launches \u00a31.5m superbug IT"},{"date": "2010-06-23T11:29:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon said that pilots with the systems have proved successful and they will now be rolled out across Scotland, at a cost of \u00a31.5m.The systems were piloted in four health board areas: Lothian, Fife, Tayside and Grampian. The Scottish Government said an evaluation of the pilots demonstrated that upgraded and integrated bed management and infection control IT systems can reduce infections.\"This is about making the two systems to control infections and beds talk to each other,\" a spokesperson for the Scottish Government told SmartHealthcare.com.\"For example if a patient in ward two has C. difficile, you can track where they have been. And if someone has an infection you may want to treat them in isolation, but they can be treated with other patients. The IT can help to organise the co-treatment of patients with the same infection.\"Sturgeon said: \"Using the latest IT systems and ensuring these are fully integrated will allow health boards to better manage their beds to reduce the risk of infections spreading.\"She added: \"I am confident that these measures will contribute to further reduced infection rates.\"Scotland's hospitals boards are being asked to reduce infection rates by at least 50% among people over 65 by the end of March 2011. A new and more stringent target for tackling C. difficile is also being introduced.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Health", "Applications"], "title": "Scotland launches \u00a31.5m superbug IT"},{"date": "2010-05-06T10:27:22Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale Local-born solicitor David Mundell has been the Tories' only Scottish MP since 2005, beating Labour with a 1,738 majority. Labour represents most of the seat at Holyrood but Tweeddale is Lib Dem. A weekend TNS-BRMB poll predicts Mundell will lose despite high-profile visits from David Cameron. A split Labour-Lib Dem vote could see the Tories survive, though. Vitally important for face-saving purposes \u2013 without a single Scottish MP does Cameron have a mandate to govern Scotland, or even a candidate for Scottish secretary?Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey If Labour support in Scotland remains buoyant Nick Clegg's election campaign mastermind Danny Alexander could lose this seat. The vast seat was a Lib Dem gain from Labour in 2005 but it's long been seen as a genuine four-way marginal. The SNP have fielded an able Highland councillor and most of the seat is held by the SNP's community safety minister at Holyrood.Renfrewshire East This former Conservative seat was won in 2005 and held against expectations by rising star, Scottish secretary Jim Murphy. On paper the seat (packed with wealthy suburbs) is a Tory win but the Lib Dems may be more realistic challengers. Murphy's performed well in the televised Scottish leaders debates and hopes profile, constituency effort and the lack of a Scottish Cameron bounce will help him hang on \u2013 scuppering reported plans to replace the Scottish Labour leader, Iain Gray, at Holyrood.Livingston Not listed as a key marginal, but Robin Cook's old seat has been held since 2005 by Jim Devine, the disgraced Labour MP claiming legal aid to defend himself against fraud charges. The Labour newcomer is defending a 2,600 majority over the SNP, who already hold the Holyrood seat and the local council in this former-mining constituency turned white-collar, new town.Edinburgh South Was solid Conservative from 1945 to 1987, when Labour's Nigel Griffiths won. Everyone assumed it would return to the fold, but Griffiths \u2013 one of Gordon Brown's most prominent supporters \u2013 held on. He stood down after rows over expenses and a sex scandal leaving his successor to defend a majority of 405 in Scotland's most marginal seat against \"auld enemy\" and the resurgent, second-placed Lib Dems.Glasgow East The SNP 2008 by-election win in Labour's working-class heartland stunned Britain. But even the Nationalists agree, Thursday will probably see a win for Labour's former justice minister Margaret Curran who needs a 0.7% swing.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the seats to watch | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2010-06-23T11:29:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon said that pilots with the systems have proved successful and they will now be rolled out across Scotland, at a cost of \u00a31.5m.The systems were piloted in four health board areas: Lothian, Fife, Tayside and Grampian. The Scottish Government said an evaluation of the pilots demonstrated that upgraded and integrated bed management and infection control IT systems can reduce infections.\"This is about making the two systems to control infections and beds talk to each other,\" a spokesperson for the Scottish Government told SmartHealthcare.com.\"For example if a patient in ward two has C. difficile, you can track where they have been. And if someone has an infection you may want to treat them in isolation, but they can be treated with other patients. The IT can help to organise the co-treatment of patients with the same infection.\"Sturgeon said: \"Using the latest IT systems and ensuring these are fully integrated will allow health boards to better manage their beds to reduce the risk of infections spreading.\"She added: \"I am confident that these measures will contribute to further reduced infection rates.\"Scotland's hospitals boards are being asked to reduce infection rates by at least 50% among people over 65 by the end of March 2011. A new and more stringent target for tackling C. difficile is also being introduced.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Health", "Applications"], "title": "Scotland launches \u00a31.5m superbug IT"},{"date": "2010-05-06T10:27:22Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale Local-born solicitor David Mundell has been the Tories' only Scottish MP since 2005, beating Labour with a 1,738 majority. Labour represents most of the seat at Holyrood but Tweeddale is Lib Dem. A weekend TNS-BRMB poll predicts Mundell will lose despite high-profile visits from David Cameron. A split Labour-Lib Dem vote could see the Tories survive, though. Vitally important for face-saving purposes \u2013 without a single Scottish MP does Cameron have a mandate to govern Scotland, or even a candidate for Scottish secretary?Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey If Labour support in Scotland remains buoyant Nick Clegg's election campaign mastermind Danny Alexander could lose this seat. The vast seat was a Lib Dem gain from Labour in 2005 but it's long been seen as a genuine four-way marginal. The SNP have fielded an able Highland councillor and most of the seat is held by the SNP's community safety minister at Holyrood.Renfrewshire East This former Conservative seat was won in 2005 and held against expectations by rising star, Scottish secretary Jim Murphy. On paper the seat (packed with wealthy suburbs) is a Tory win but the Lib Dems may be more realistic challengers. Murphy's performed well in the televised Scottish leaders debates and hopes profile, constituency effort and the lack of a Scottish Cameron bounce will help him hang on \u2013 scuppering reported plans to replace the Scottish Labour leader, Iain Gray, at Holyrood.Livingston Not listed as a key marginal, but Robin Cook's old seat has been held since 2005 by Jim Devine, the disgraced Labour MP claiming legal aid to defend himself against fraud charges. The Labour newcomer is defending a 2,600 majority over the SNP, who already hold the Holyrood seat and the local council in this former-mining constituency turned white-collar, new town.Edinburgh South Was solid Conservative from 1945 to 1987, when Labour's Nigel Griffiths won. Everyone assumed it would return to the fold, but Griffiths \u2013 one of Gordon Brown's most prominent supporters \u2013 held on. He stood down after rows over expenses and a sex scandal leaving his successor to defend a majority of 405 in Scotland's most marginal seat against \"auld enemy\" and the resurgent, second-placed Lib Dems.Glasgow East The SNP 2008 by-election win in Labour's working-class heartland stunned Britain. But even the Nationalists agree, Thursday will probably see a win for Labour's former justice minister Margaret Curran who needs a 0.7% swing.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the seats to watch | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2010-06-16T12:08:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alastair Merrill told delegates at the SmartGov Live exhibition and conference that the new database will simplify the bidding process and lower barriers for small businesses bidding for Scottish public sector business. It is due to go live later in 2010.\u00a0He said that a working group of business representatives from across Scotland had been established. Simplifying and standardising procurement is among the areas it had identified as key to removing barriers to bidding.\u00a0\"Improving access to SMEs is one of our key priorities,\" Merrill told the event on 15 June 2010. \"We have introduced new contract conditions requiring 30 day payment throughout the contracting chain and we are encouraging the rest of the public sector to do this.\"\u00a0Scotland's government is also introducing a \"quick quote\" facility within its e-commerce portal, Public Contract Scotland, which will allow procurements not using the Official Journal of the European Union (Ojeu) to be carried out with \"a minimum of bureaucracy and fuss\".\u00a0Merrill said that more than 45,000 suppliers and more than 500 contracting authorities are registered on Public Contracts Scotland. The country is encouraging supplier collaboration, he added, by helping to build consortia of SMEs to bid for major contracts. It is also working on enabling greater availability of sub-contracting opportunities and tender lists.\u00a0He said that Scotland had decided to advertise contracts worth more than \u00a350,000 because feedback from suppliers indicated that advertising business below that value added to their work. Merrill said it will be interesting to see how the Office of Government Commerce \u00a325,000 threshold works.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Central government", "Procurement", "E-commerce"], "title": "SmartGov: Scotland to launch new tenders database"},{"date": "2010-06-23T11:29:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon said that pilots with the systems have proved successful and they will now be rolled out across Scotland, at a cost of \u00a31.5m.The systems were piloted in four health board areas: Lothian, Fife, Tayside and Grampian. The Scottish Government said an evaluation of the pilots demonstrated that upgraded and integrated bed management and infection control IT systems can reduce infections.\"This is about making the two systems to control infections and beds talk to each other,\" a spokesperson for the Scottish Government told SmartHealthcare.com.\"For example if a patient in ward two has C. difficile, you can track where they have been. And if someone has an infection you may want to treat them in isolation, but they can be treated with other patients. The IT can help to organise the co-treatment of patients with the same infection.\"Sturgeon said: \"Using the latest IT systems and ensuring these are fully integrated will allow health boards to better manage their beds to reduce the risk of infections spreading.\"She added: \"I am confident that these measures will contribute to further reduced infection rates.\"Scotland's hospitals boards are being asked to reduce infection rates by at least 50% among people over 65 by the end of March 2011. A new and more stringent target for tackling C. difficile is also being introduced.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Health", "Applications"], "title": "Scotland launches \u00a31.5m superbug IT"},{"date": "2010-05-06T10:27:22Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale Local-born solicitor David Mundell has been the Tories' only Scottish MP since 2005, beating Labour with a 1,738 majority. Labour represents most of the seat at Holyrood but Tweeddale is Lib Dem. A weekend TNS-BRMB poll predicts Mundell will lose despite high-profile visits from David Cameron. A split Labour-Lib Dem vote could see the Tories survive, though. Vitally important for face-saving purposes \u2013 without a single Scottish MP does Cameron have a mandate to govern Scotland, or even a candidate for Scottish secretary?Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey If Labour support in Scotland remains buoyant Nick Clegg's election campaign mastermind Danny Alexander could lose this seat. The vast seat was a Lib Dem gain from Labour in 2005 but it's long been seen as a genuine four-way marginal. The SNP have fielded an able Highland councillor and most of the seat is held by the SNP's community safety minister at Holyrood.Renfrewshire East This former Conservative seat was won in 2005 and held against expectations by rising star, Scottish secretary Jim Murphy. On paper the seat (packed with wealthy suburbs) is a Tory win but the Lib Dems may be more realistic challengers. Murphy's performed well in the televised Scottish leaders debates and hopes profile, constituency effort and the lack of a Scottish Cameron bounce will help him hang on \u2013 scuppering reported plans to replace the Scottish Labour leader, Iain Gray, at Holyrood.Livingston Not listed as a key marginal, but Robin Cook's old seat has been held since 2005 by Jim Devine, the disgraced Labour MP claiming legal aid to defend himself against fraud charges. The Labour newcomer is defending a 2,600 majority over the SNP, who already hold the Holyrood seat and the local council in this former-mining constituency turned white-collar, new town.Edinburgh South Was solid Conservative from 1945 to 1987, when Labour's Nigel Griffiths won. Everyone assumed it would return to the fold, but Griffiths \u2013 one of Gordon Brown's most prominent supporters \u2013 held on. He stood down after rows over expenses and a sex scandal leaving his successor to defend a majority of 405 in Scotland's most marginal seat against \"auld enemy\" and the resurgent, second-placed Lib Dems.Glasgow East The SNP 2008 by-election win in Labour's working-class heartland stunned Britain. But even the Nationalists agree, Thursday will probably see a win for Labour's former justice minister Margaret Curran who needs a 0.7% swing.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the seats to watch | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2010-06-16T12:08:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alastair Merrill told delegates at the SmartGov Live exhibition and conference that the new database will simplify the bidding process and lower barriers for small businesses bidding for Scottish public sector business. It is due to go live later in 2010.\u00a0He said that a working group of business representatives from across Scotland had been established. Simplifying and standardising procurement is among the areas it had identified as key to removing barriers to bidding.\u00a0\"Improving access to SMEs is one of our key priorities,\" Merrill told the event on 15 June 2010. \"We have introduced new contract conditions requiring 30 day payment throughout the contracting chain and we are encouraging the rest of the public sector to do this.\"\u00a0Scotland's government is also introducing a \"quick quote\" facility within its e-commerce portal, Public Contract Scotland, which will allow procurements not using the Official Journal of the European Union (Ojeu) to be carried out with \"a minimum of bureaucracy and fuss\".\u00a0Merrill said that more than 45,000 suppliers and more than 500 contracting authorities are registered on Public Contracts Scotland. The country is encouraging supplier collaboration, he added, by helping to build consortia of SMEs to bid for major contracts. It is also working on enabling greater availability of sub-contracting opportunities and tender lists.\u00a0He said that Scotland had decided to advertise contracts worth more than \u00a350,000 because feedback from suppliers indicated that advertising business below that value added to their work. Merrill said it will be interesting to see how the Office of Government Commerce \u00a325,000 threshold works.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Central government", "Procurement", "E-commerce"], "title": "SmartGov: Scotland to launch new tenders database"},{"date": "2010-06-10T20:59:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\"Scotland is very like Provence,\" Sylvain Chomet declares, and waits a second for the ridiculousness of what he has just said to sink in. Who wouldn't be fooled by the lavender fields of Lanarkshire, the sun-bleached hills of Kirkcaldy or the olive\u00a0groves of Auchtermuchty?Isn't Govan even a kind of Monte Carlo\u00a0by the Clyde with scratchcards for roulette and Buckfast for Bordeaux? And\u00a0what is a midge, if not a cicada that has yet to find its voice?\"No, no, I am serious,\" Chomet insists, half in outrage. \"Laugh if you like, but they are very similar. The light is exactly the same as in Provence. That is, when there is light in Scotland. And I am telling you, you only get this special light in these two places, nowhere else.\"Which doesn't quite explain why Chomet, having had Hollywood studios falling over themselves to accommodate him after the huge and unexpected worldwide success of Belleville Rendez-Vous (or The Triplets of Belleville, everywhere but the UK), decided to set up shop in Edinburgh, which has little or no tradition of animation and only a tiny pool of artists to draw on. He is not quite sure why either. But he did.Several million working hours later, the result is The Illusionist, the most beautiful love letter ever written to the city on screen: an elegiac, hugely moving meditation on fathers and daughters set in the dying days of musical hall in the late 1950s, when TV and rock'n'roll were taking over the world, but whose real star is incontestably Auld Reekie herself.The film will open the Edinburgh film festival next week, which is only fitting since it was the festival that first brought Chomet to the city eight years ago on the wave of critical acclaim for Belleville Rendez-Vous. It coincided with one of those once-in-a-century stretches of fine weather when Edinburgh and Scotland looked like something from a tourist board fairytale. Chomet fell under the spell. He and his English wife and producer Sally decided to move to North Berwick. \"It was so, so beautiful. Like you were in heaven, or in this lost bit of the Caribbean.\"What he didn't know then was that if you took off your jumper on its inviting beach you risked pneumonia and that if you dared go into the sea, \"you die! It is not just that it is freezing, the wind will get you on the way out if the water doesn't.\"Chomet had come to Edinburgh that summer with an old Jacques Tati script in his pocket. It had been slipped to him by Tati's daughter, Sophie Tatischeff, touched by his little nods to her father's Jour de F\u00eate and Monsieur Hulot in Belleville. \"I think Tati wrote the script for her. I think he felt guilty that he spent too long away from his daughter when he was working. Little girls turn into a woman in such a short period,\" Chomet says. \"Tati had this feeling that he had missed something essential. It's an extremely emotional story, so personal that I think he was afraid to make it himself. Really, she gave me a precious gift and sadly Sophie Tatischeff died from lung cancer \u2013 like her father \u2013 before I could thank her for letting me have the script.\"Its story \u2013 of a magician forced to go further and further from his family for work as variety dies \u2013 tallies uncannily with the real Jacques Tatischeff's own feelings of being at odds with the brave new modern world. The son of White Russian aristocrats, Tati often employed clowns and acrobats from music hall on his films just to give them work. Like them, he felt he was a refugee from the past and the future.It was that first visit to Edinburgh that convinced Chomet to change the setting of the film to Scotland. \"I liked the idea of the magician going to London from Paris to escape rock'n'roll, only to realise that is where it was coming from, and then being forced further and further north, doing garden parties and weddings.\" Eventually he ends up in the Hebrides, a sequence inspired by the coming of electricity to the island of Iona in 1959, which as in the film was celebrated with a ceilidh. \"What they were celebrating really was the end of their culture and way of life.\"There the illusionist meets a young Gaelic-speaking girl who is just as lost and alone as he is. \"He is reconstructing a family and the girl is craving a father figure. It all works perfectly,\" says Chomet.Setting the story in Scotland was one thing. Making it there was another. The biggest problem was finding the animators. Like the music-hall acts in the film, animators had become convinced by Hollywood that their time had passed. \"A lot of animators, basically people who can\u00a0draw, got scared by these wankers from Disney saying that 2D animation is dead, that it was only going to be 3D and Pixar from now on. It is just typical shit by people in ties who don't know what they are talking about. Are they saying that Aardman is dead, too, then? I mean how stupid are these people? Saying 2D is dead is like saying that a car race is the future of the Tour de France.\"We had trouble because the fantastic animators we found had got really stressed because they thought after our film there was not going to be any 2D any more. Some were driving buses or retraining. People really had been made to believe that the end had come. The truth is that animation is always mixing things up: pen and paper, stop motion, puppets, 3D. Suddenly this bizarre competition has been created. What it is, one more time, is this American reflex to kill off the competition, to say that you can only do it one way and destroy everything else that went before. The whole society is like that. They destroy what they have to build something new. They end up with no roots to draw on, nothing to compare their work with to see if it is good or not. American culture is in real danger of starving itself to dead. You just have to see what Hollywood is producing to see how narrow it is getting.\"Chomet's fury at Disney is the anger of someone who has fallen out of love. \"Walt Disney invented everything, he absorbed all these guys who came from the eastern countries who brought their rich cultures with them. He found this brilliant way of making money out of a new artform.\" Chomet even worked for Disney before Belleville. \"I learned an awful lot from them \u2013 how not to do it. The artists have no say any more. The suits decide everything now, and there are so many of them. It is like the dinosaurs, it has got too big and the brain is too small. With us, every cent we spend goes on the screen.\"Even so, it was to Disney that Chomet turned first for inspiration. \"101 Dalmations had a big effect on me, and you can see it in this film.\" It is true: Chomet's London and Edinburgh draw on that palette, deepened with his own lugubrious take on Tati's comedy. But, most of all, what we see is the fantastical depth and detail of images, like the history of French bande dessin\u00e9e (comic books) stacking up in the background, begging to be noticed. \"That is what I come from,\" Chomet says. \"That is my roots. We really researched Edinburgh of 1959 right down to recreating the famous chip shops of the time where everything, including the lobster, is battered. You know I miss Scotland a lot, but it is true the food is a bit special. This idea that you have to do violence to food before you eat it. Batter it up good and proper before you can eat it.\"Chomet moved back to France to live in Provence last July. \"I still love Edinburgh and Scotland and the Scots, but after five years I wanted to see a summer. I just wanted to be able to plan a picnic. Is that too much to ask? You can leave someone and still love them. It is sometimes best to go when you are still in love, before it turns bitter, like a old chip.\" Yes, Scotland has left her mark \u2013 a greasy, salt 'n' sauce shaped one \u2013 on Sylvain Chomet.The Illusionist opens the Edinburgh Film Festival June 16 at the Festival Theatre. More information: www.edfilmfest.org.uk. It goes on general release on August 20.", "tags": ["Animation", "Edinburgh film festival", "Film", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Why Sylvain Chomet chose Scotland over Hollywood"},{"date": "2010-06-23T11:29:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon said that pilots with the systems have proved successful and they will now be rolled out across Scotland, at a cost of \u00a31.5m.The systems were piloted in four health board areas: Lothian, Fife, Tayside and Grampian. The Scottish Government said an evaluation of the pilots demonstrated that upgraded and integrated bed management and infection control IT systems can reduce infections.\"This is about making the two systems to control infections and beds talk to each other,\" a spokesperson for the Scottish Government told SmartHealthcare.com.\"For example if a patient in ward two has C. difficile, you can track where they have been. And if someone has an infection you may want to treat them in isolation, but they can be treated with other patients. The IT can help to organise the co-treatment of patients with the same infection.\"Sturgeon said: \"Using the latest IT systems and ensuring these are fully integrated will allow health boards to better manage their beds to reduce the risk of infections spreading.\"She added: \"I am confident that these measures will contribute to further reduced infection rates.\"Scotland's hospitals boards are being asked to reduce infection rates by at least 50% among people over 65 by the end of March 2011. A new and more stringent target for tackling C. difficile is also being introduced.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Health", "Applications"], "title": "Scotland launches \u00a31.5m superbug IT"},{"date": "2010-05-06T10:27:22Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale Local-born solicitor David Mundell has been the Tories' only Scottish MP since 2005, beating Labour with a 1,738 majority. Labour represents most of the seat at Holyrood but Tweeddale is Lib Dem. A weekend TNS-BRMB poll predicts Mundell will lose despite high-profile visits from David Cameron. A split Labour-Lib Dem vote could see the Tories survive, though. Vitally important for face-saving purposes \u2013 without a single Scottish MP does Cameron have a mandate to govern Scotland, or even a candidate for Scottish secretary?Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey If Labour support in Scotland remains buoyant Nick Clegg's election campaign mastermind Danny Alexander could lose this seat. The vast seat was a Lib Dem gain from Labour in 2005 but it's long been seen as a genuine four-way marginal. The SNP have fielded an able Highland councillor and most of the seat is held by the SNP's community safety minister at Holyrood.Renfrewshire East This former Conservative seat was won in 2005 and held against expectations by rising star, Scottish secretary Jim Murphy. On paper the seat (packed with wealthy suburbs) is a Tory win but the Lib Dems may be more realistic challengers. Murphy's performed well in the televised Scottish leaders debates and hopes profile, constituency effort and the lack of a Scottish Cameron bounce will help him hang on \u2013 scuppering reported plans to replace the Scottish Labour leader, Iain Gray, at Holyrood.Livingston Not listed as a key marginal, but Robin Cook's old seat has been held since 2005 by Jim Devine, the disgraced Labour MP claiming legal aid to defend himself against fraud charges. The Labour newcomer is defending a 2,600 majority over the SNP, who already hold the Holyrood seat and the local council in this former-mining constituency turned white-collar, new town.Edinburgh South Was solid Conservative from 1945 to 1987, when Labour's Nigel Griffiths won. Everyone assumed it would return to the fold, but Griffiths \u2013 one of Gordon Brown's most prominent supporters \u2013 held on. He stood down after rows over expenses and a sex scandal leaving his successor to defend a majority of 405 in Scotland's most marginal seat against \"auld enemy\" and the resurgent, second-placed Lib Dems.Glasgow East The SNP 2008 by-election win in Labour's working-class heartland stunned Britain. But even the Nationalists agree, Thursday will probably see a win for Labour's former justice minister Margaret Curran who needs a 0.7% swing.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the seats to watch | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2010-06-16T12:08:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alastair Merrill told delegates at the SmartGov Live exhibition and conference that the new database will simplify the bidding process and lower barriers for small businesses bidding for Scottish public sector business. It is due to go live later in 2010.\u00a0He said that a working group of business representatives from across Scotland had been established. Simplifying and standardising procurement is among the areas it had identified as key to removing barriers to bidding.\u00a0\"Improving access to SMEs is one of our key priorities,\" Merrill told the event on 15 June 2010. \"We have introduced new contract conditions requiring 30 day payment throughout the contracting chain and we are encouraging the rest of the public sector to do this.\"\u00a0Scotland's government is also introducing a \"quick quote\" facility within its e-commerce portal, Public Contract Scotland, which will allow procurements not using the Official Journal of the European Union (Ojeu) to be carried out with \"a minimum of bureaucracy and fuss\".\u00a0Merrill said that more than 45,000 suppliers and more than 500 contracting authorities are registered on Public Contracts Scotland. The country is encouraging supplier collaboration, he added, by helping to build consortia of SMEs to bid for major contracts. It is also working on enabling greater availability of sub-contracting opportunities and tender lists.\u00a0He said that Scotland had decided to advertise contracts worth more than \u00a350,000 because feedback from suppliers indicated that advertising business below that value added to their work. Merrill said it will be interesting to see how the Office of Government Commerce \u00a325,000 threshold works.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Central government", "Procurement", "E-commerce"], "title": "SmartGov: Scotland to launch new tenders database"},{"date": "2010-06-10T20:59:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\"Scotland is very like Provence,\" Sylvain Chomet declares, and waits a second for the ridiculousness of what he has just said to sink in. Who wouldn't be fooled by the lavender fields of Lanarkshire, the sun-bleached hills of Kirkcaldy or the olive\u00a0groves of Auchtermuchty?Isn't Govan even a kind of Monte Carlo\u00a0by the Clyde with scratchcards for roulette and Buckfast for Bordeaux? And\u00a0what is a midge, if not a cicada that has yet to find its voice?\"No, no, I am serious,\" Chomet insists, half in outrage. \"Laugh if you like, but they are very similar. The light is exactly the same as in Provence. That is, when there is light in Scotland. And I am telling you, you only get this special light in these two places, nowhere else.\"Which doesn't quite explain why Chomet, having had Hollywood studios falling over themselves to accommodate him after the huge and unexpected worldwide success of Belleville Rendez-Vous (or The Triplets of Belleville, everywhere but the UK), decided to set up shop in Edinburgh, which has little or no tradition of animation and only a tiny pool of artists to draw on. He is not quite sure why either. But he did.Several million working hours later, the result is The Illusionist, the most beautiful love letter ever written to the city on screen: an elegiac, hugely moving meditation on fathers and daughters set in the dying days of musical hall in the late 1950s, when TV and rock'n'roll were taking over the world, but whose real star is incontestably Auld Reekie herself.The film will open the Edinburgh film festival next week, which is only fitting since it was the festival that first brought Chomet to the city eight years ago on the wave of critical acclaim for Belleville Rendez-Vous. It coincided with one of those once-in-a-century stretches of fine weather when Edinburgh and Scotland looked like something from a tourist board fairytale. Chomet fell under the spell. He and his English wife and producer Sally decided to move to North Berwick. \"It was so, so beautiful. Like you were in heaven, or in this lost bit of the Caribbean.\"What he didn't know then was that if you took off your jumper on its inviting beach you risked pneumonia and that if you dared go into the sea, \"you die! It is not just that it is freezing, the wind will get you on the way out if the water doesn't.\"Chomet had come to Edinburgh that summer with an old Jacques Tati script in his pocket. It had been slipped to him by Tati's daughter, Sophie Tatischeff, touched by his little nods to her father's Jour de F\u00eate and Monsieur Hulot in Belleville. \"I think Tati wrote the script for her. I think he felt guilty that he spent too long away from his daughter when he was working. Little girls turn into a woman in such a short period,\" Chomet says. \"Tati had this feeling that he had missed something essential. It's an extremely emotional story, so personal that I think he was afraid to make it himself. Really, she gave me a precious gift and sadly Sophie Tatischeff died from lung cancer \u2013 like her father \u2013 before I could thank her for letting me have the script.\"Its story \u2013 of a magician forced to go further and further from his family for work as variety dies \u2013 tallies uncannily with the real Jacques Tatischeff's own feelings of being at odds with the brave new modern world. The son of White Russian aristocrats, Tati often employed clowns and acrobats from music hall on his films just to give them work. Like them, he felt he was a refugee from the past and the future.It was that first visit to Edinburgh that convinced Chomet to change the setting of the film to Scotland. \"I liked the idea of the magician going to London from Paris to escape rock'n'roll, only to realise that is where it was coming from, and then being forced further and further north, doing garden parties and weddings.\" Eventually he ends up in the Hebrides, a sequence inspired by the coming of electricity to the island of Iona in 1959, which as in the film was celebrated with a ceilidh. \"What they were celebrating really was the end of their culture and way of life.\"There the illusionist meets a young Gaelic-speaking girl who is just as lost and alone as he is. \"He is reconstructing a family and the girl is craving a father figure. It all works perfectly,\" says Chomet.Setting the story in Scotland was one thing. Making it there was another. The biggest problem was finding the animators. Like the music-hall acts in the film, animators had become convinced by Hollywood that their time had passed. \"A lot of animators, basically people who can\u00a0draw, got scared by these wankers from Disney saying that 2D animation is dead, that it was only going to be 3D and Pixar from now on. It is just typical shit by people in ties who don't know what they are talking about. Are they saying that Aardman is dead, too, then? I mean how stupid are these people? Saying 2D is dead is like saying that a car race is the future of the Tour de France.\"We had trouble because the fantastic animators we found had got really stressed because they thought after our film there was not going to be any 2D any more. Some were driving buses or retraining. People really had been made to believe that the end had come. The truth is that animation is always mixing things up: pen and paper, stop motion, puppets, 3D. Suddenly this bizarre competition has been created. What it is, one more time, is this American reflex to kill off the competition, to say that you can only do it one way and destroy everything else that went before. The whole society is like that. They destroy what they have to build something new. They end up with no roots to draw on, nothing to compare their work with to see if it is good or not. American culture is in real danger of starving itself to dead. You just have to see what Hollywood is producing to see how narrow it is getting.\"Chomet's fury at Disney is the anger of someone who has fallen out of love. \"Walt Disney invented everything, he absorbed all these guys who came from the eastern countries who brought their rich cultures with them. He found this brilliant way of making money out of a new artform.\" Chomet even worked for Disney before Belleville. \"I learned an awful lot from them \u2013 how not to do it. The artists have no say any more. The suits decide everything now, and there are so many of them. It is like the dinosaurs, it has got too big and the brain is too small. With us, every cent we spend goes on the screen.\"Even so, it was to Disney that Chomet turned first for inspiration. \"101 Dalmations had a big effect on me, and you can see it in this film.\" It is true: Chomet's London and Edinburgh draw on that palette, deepened with his own lugubrious take on Tati's comedy. But, most of all, what we see is the fantastical depth and detail of images, like the history of French bande dessin\u00e9e (comic books) stacking up in the background, begging to be noticed. \"That is what I come from,\" Chomet says. \"That is my roots. We really researched Edinburgh of 1959 right down to recreating the famous chip shops of the time where everything, including the lobster, is battered. You know I miss Scotland a lot, but it is true the food is a bit special. This idea that you have to do violence to food before you eat it. Batter it up good and proper before you can eat it.\"Chomet moved back to France to live in Provence last July. \"I still love Edinburgh and Scotland and the Scots, but after five years I wanted to see a summer. I just wanted to be able to plan a picnic. Is that too much to ask? You can leave someone and still love them. It is sometimes best to go when you are still in love, before it turns bitter, like a old chip.\" Yes, Scotland has left her mark \u2013 a greasy, salt 'n' sauce shaped one \u2013 on Sylvain Chomet.The Illusionist opens the Edinburgh Film Festival June 16 at the Festival Theatre. More information: www.edfilmfest.org.uk. It goes on general release on August 20.", "tags": ["Animation", "Edinburgh film festival", "Film", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Why Sylvain Chomet chose Scotland over Hollywood"},{"date": "2010-05-21T23:06:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On the train up to Scotland, I ask Maddy (aged six) what makes a good story. Without hesitation she replies, \"A spider who is a princess.\"Children have such a brutal logic of their own and God help the storyteller who cannot cope with it. I almost ring ahead to warn our host, Andy Hunter, who is meeting us next day in Kirkcaldy for a weekend of story-telling and cycling around the Fife countryside. After all, the chances of him coming up with a spider princess story are pretty remote. On the phone, he had said something about doing tales of local saints \u2013 no mention of aristocratic arachnids at all.As we speed north along the beautiful east coast rail route, passing beaches and islands and other evocative locations, I try to tease her away from this idea: sea monsters perhaps, or a holy man with magical powers on an island, or what about a princess in a tower?She eyes me pitilessly. \"Is she a spider?\"Our bike ride starts on the Saturday morning. Andy seems a genial soul, not at all fazed by Maddy's demands. \"There's the one about Robert the Bruce and the spider ...\"She nods dismissively. \"I know that one.\"Having met our other companions \u2013 Canadian expatriates Allette and Mike \u2013 we set out for the coast. Maddy and I are on one of those adult-and-child tandems \u2013 a tagalong, but she is not pedalling much. When we reach Ravenscraig Castle, she jumps off and starts leaping around on the lawns and rocks. Andy quietly starts to tell us adults about the American naval commander John Paul Jones and how his attack on Kirkcaldy in 1778 was repelled, either by a divine wind or by his mistaking the village women's red shawls for the coats of soldiers. Maddy pays this no attention whatsoever.Andy gets on to the subject of local wizard Michael Scott who was said to have flown across the heavens on an invisible horse. (A brief pause in Maddy's jumping.) Later Scott became an ambassador to the Emperor Frederick II (Maddy resumes her game of hopscotch), and managed to lock the plague in a dungeon at Glenluce Castle (momentary flicker of interest).We leave Ravenscraig and take the coastal path down to the snug little harbour of Dysart, once home to the sixth-century holy man, Saint Serf. Andy tells of the legendary connection with the desert fathers and Coptic Christianity, but Maddy isn't listening. She's dancing from foot to foot: \"I need a wee-wee \u2013 I'm desperate.\"After a stop in the local cafe we head up into the Fife countryside, taking back roads and lanes until we reach Loch Leven, a nature reserve. In the centre of the loch is a sanctuary where Saint Serf lived. Andy tells of how, as a schoolboy, Serf revived a dead robin killed by his classmates. Maddy objects. \"That's not actually possible. Magic isn't real.\"For heaven's sake, I'm thinking, get a spider princess in the frame: don't worry that they aren't real either \u2013 she won't mind. We move on until we are opposite a second island. Here Andy calls Maddy over. \"Can you see that castle on the island? That's where Mary Queen of Scots was held prisoner for more than a year \u2013 trapped like a fly in a spider's web.\"Maddy stops jittering and pays attention. Her ears are open.Andy explains how Mary escaped when her manservant managed to steal the keys. The pair of them locked the captors inside their own fortress and fled by rowing boat. As they did so, they were said to have thrown the keys into the lake where they were found three centuries later during a drought.After a further hour of cycling, we reach Kinross and our lodgings in the Salutation pub. Over dinner Andy tells stories of giants and magical snakes and red-eyed birds. Maddy is really listening hard now. She is having the traditional Scottish dinner of her choice \u2013 macaroni cheese and a can of Irn-Bru \u2013 and hearing stories. It is almost as if she has suddenly realised what is happening here: a storyteller who, unlike Daddy, does not say: \"No stories \u2013 it's bedtime.\" This man seems to like telling stories too. In fact, she discovers, if you ask him for another, he will invariably oblige. Eventually I manage to drag her away and get her to sleep.Next day as we pedal south through the Cleish Hills, Andy tells me how he got started. \"Hearing great story-tellers was very important. In 1985 I heard Willie McPhee at the Edinburgh folk festival, then there was Stanley Robertson and Duncan Williamson \u2013 both from the traveller community of Scotland. Listening to them I got the sound of the words, the cadences and rhythms.\"Is there a Scottish way of story-telling? \"Maybe there is. It's quite conversational, like a fireside chat.\"The art has undergone something of a revival in recent years all over Britain, but in Scotland the upsurge in interest has been particularly strong, not least because of the Scottish Storytelling Centre in Edinburgh which runs training courses.\"What I want to do,\" says Andy, \"is make the journey more alive and interesting by using stories about the places and things we see.\"The idea came to him after one particular experience. \"I'd cycled through Orkney and noticed, on the Isle of Hoy, the grave of a woman called Betty Corrigall. A few years later I heard her tragic story told by David Campbell and the visit to her grave suddenly came alive. I realised then how much could be done with story-telling to add to the experience of a journey. It's important,\" he adds, \"to slow down.\"He quotes Matthew Arnold: \"And see all sights from pole to pole,And glance, and nod, and bustle by,And never once possess our soulBefore we die.\"On our bikes we reach the top of a long hill and pause to hear about a robber who was bested by a clever victim. Maddy likes this one a lot. Our lonely route through dark pine forest is imbued with the possibility of adventure. The bicycle has become a horse and our saddles are filled with gold. Behind me I can hear her whipping the horse up and I don't need to pedal any more: Maddy is powering us along, her legs whizzing around, energised by tales of highwaymen. We speed all the way to Dunfermline. Maddy muttering curses at robbers and encouragement to our sturdy horse.When we finally say goodbye and board our train south, she falls asleep in an instant and doesn't wake until after Newcastle. \"Daddy,\" she says, \"Can I have a story?\"I groan inwardly. \"About a spider princess?\"\"No,\" her eyes light up. \"A robber on a horse and a farmer with gold in his saddle, or maybe a giant with a heart in his left heel.\"Her mind, I deduce, has been broadened.\u2022 Andy Hunter's Storybikes (07762 000039) offers weekend tours around Scotland from \u00a375pp per night, including dinner and breakfast; week tours from \u00a3590. The next Fife weekend is 12-13 June; the next one-week tour starts 26 September. Kevin and Maddy rode a Revolution Cross bike (\u00a3449.99) and Glider tandem trailer (\u00a3129.99) from Edinburgh Bicycle Co-operative (0845 257 0808); there are also branches in Aberdeen, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield.More information on Scotland: visitscotland.com/perfect", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Cycling holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks"], "title": "Pedaller of myths: Scotland on two wheels"},{"date": "2010-06-23T11:29:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon said that pilots with the systems have proved successful and they will now be rolled out across Scotland, at a cost of \u00a31.5m.The systems were piloted in four health board areas: Lothian, Fife, Tayside and Grampian. The Scottish Government said an evaluation of the pilots demonstrated that upgraded and integrated bed management and infection control IT systems can reduce infections.\"This is about making the two systems to control infections and beds talk to each other,\" a spokesperson for the Scottish Government told SmartHealthcare.com.\"For example if a patient in ward two has C. difficile, you can track where they have been. And if someone has an infection you may want to treat them in isolation, but they can be treated with other patients. The IT can help to organise the co-treatment of patients with the same infection.\"Sturgeon said: \"Using the latest IT systems and ensuring these are fully integrated will allow health boards to better manage their beds to reduce the risk of infections spreading.\"She added: \"I am confident that these measures will contribute to further reduced infection rates.\"Scotland's hospitals boards are being asked to reduce infection rates by at least 50% among people over 65 by the end of March 2011. A new and more stringent target for tackling C. difficile is also being introduced.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Health", "Applications"], "title": "Scotland launches \u00a31.5m superbug IT"},{"date": "2010-05-06T10:27:22Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale Local-born solicitor David Mundell has been the Tories' only Scottish MP since 2005, beating Labour with a 1,738 majority. Labour represents most of the seat at Holyrood but Tweeddale is Lib Dem. A weekend TNS-BRMB poll predicts Mundell will lose despite high-profile visits from David Cameron. A split Labour-Lib Dem vote could see the Tories survive, though. Vitally important for face-saving purposes \u2013 without a single Scottish MP does Cameron have a mandate to govern Scotland, or even a candidate for Scottish secretary?Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey If Labour support in Scotland remains buoyant Nick Clegg's election campaign mastermind Danny Alexander could lose this seat. The vast seat was a Lib Dem gain from Labour in 2005 but it's long been seen as a genuine four-way marginal. The SNP have fielded an able Highland councillor and most of the seat is held by the SNP's community safety minister at Holyrood.Renfrewshire East This former Conservative seat was won in 2005 and held against expectations by rising star, Scottish secretary Jim Murphy. On paper the seat (packed with wealthy suburbs) is a Tory win but the Lib Dems may be more realistic challengers. Murphy's performed well in the televised Scottish leaders debates and hopes profile, constituency effort and the lack of a Scottish Cameron bounce will help him hang on \u2013 scuppering reported plans to replace the Scottish Labour leader, Iain Gray, at Holyrood.Livingston Not listed as a key marginal, but Robin Cook's old seat has been held since 2005 by Jim Devine, the disgraced Labour MP claiming legal aid to defend himself against fraud charges. The Labour newcomer is defending a 2,600 majority over the SNP, who already hold the Holyrood seat and the local council in this former-mining constituency turned white-collar, new town.Edinburgh South Was solid Conservative from 1945 to 1987, when Labour's Nigel Griffiths won. Everyone assumed it would return to the fold, but Griffiths \u2013 one of Gordon Brown's most prominent supporters \u2013 held on. He stood down after rows over expenses and a sex scandal leaving his successor to defend a majority of 405 in Scotland's most marginal seat against \"auld enemy\" and the resurgent, second-placed Lib Dems.Glasgow East The SNP 2008 by-election win in Labour's working-class heartland stunned Britain. But even the Nationalists agree, Thursday will probably see a win for Labour's former justice minister Margaret Curran who needs a 0.7% swing.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the seats to watch | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2010-06-16T12:08:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alastair Merrill told delegates at the SmartGov Live exhibition and conference that the new database will simplify the bidding process and lower barriers for small businesses bidding for Scottish public sector business. It is due to go live later in 2010.\u00a0He said that a working group of business representatives from across Scotland had been established. Simplifying and standardising procurement is among the areas it had identified as key to removing barriers to bidding.\u00a0\"Improving access to SMEs is one of our key priorities,\" Merrill told the event on 15 June 2010. \"We have introduced new contract conditions requiring 30 day payment throughout the contracting chain and we are encouraging the rest of the public sector to do this.\"\u00a0Scotland's government is also introducing a \"quick quote\" facility within its e-commerce portal, Public Contract Scotland, which will allow procurements not using the Official Journal of the European Union (Ojeu) to be carried out with \"a minimum of bureaucracy and fuss\".\u00a0Merrill said that more than 45,000 suppliers and more than 500 contracting authorities are registered on Public Contracts Scotland. The country is encouraging supplier collaboration, he added, by helping to build consortia of SMEs to bid for major contracts. It is also working on enabling greater availability of sub-contracting opportunities and tender lists.\u00a0He said that Scotland had decided to advertise contracts worth more than \u00a350,000 because feedback from suppliers indicated that advertising business below that value added to their work. Merrill said it will be interesting to see how the Office of Government Commerce \u00a325,000 threshold works.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Central government", "Procurement", "E-commerce"], "title": "SmartGov: Scotland to launch new tenders database"},{"date": "2010-06-10T20:59:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\"Scotland is very like Provence,\" Sylvain Chomet declares, and waits a second for the ridiculousness of what he has just said to sink in. Who wouldn't be fooled by the lavender fields of Lanarkshire, the sun-bleached hills of Kirkcaldy or the olive\u00a0groves of Auchtermuchty?Isn't Govan even a kind of Monte Carlo\u00a0by the Clyde with scratchcards for roulette and Buckfast for Bordeaux? And\u00a0what is a midge, if not a cicada that has yet to find its voice?\"No, no, I am serious,\" Chomet insists, half in outrage. \"Laugh if you like, but they are very similar. The light is exactly the same as in Provence. That is, when there is light in Scotland. And I am telling you, you only get this special light in these two places, nowhere else.\"Which doesn't quite explain why Chomet, having had Hollywood studios falling over themselves to accommodate him after the huge and unexpected worldwide success of Belleville Rendez-Vous (or The Triplets of Belleville, everywhere but the UK), decided to set up shop in Edinburgh, which has little or no tradition of animation and only a tiny pool of artists to draw on. He is not quite sure why either. But he did.Several million working hours later, the result is The Illusionist, the most beautiful love letter ever written to the city on screen: an elegiac, hugely moving meditation on fathers and daughters set in the dying days of musical hall in the late 1950s, when TV and rock'n'roll were taking over the world, but whose real star is incontestably Auld Reekie herself.The film will open the Edinburgh film festival next week, which is only fitting since it was the festival that first brought Chomet to the city eight years ago on the wave of critical acclaim for Belleville Rendez-Vous. It coincided with one of those once-in-a-century stretches of fine weather when Edinburgh and Scotland looked like something from a tourist board fairytale. Chomet fell under the spell. He and his English wife and producer Sally decided to move to North Berwick. \"It was so, so beautiful. Like you were in heaven, or in this lost bit of the Caribbean.\"What he didn't know then was that if you took off your jumper on its inviting beach you risked pneumonia and that if you dared go into the sea, \"you die! It is not just that it is freezing, the wind will get you on the way out if the water doesn't.\"Chomet had come to Edinburgh that summer with an old Jacques Tati script in his pocket. It had been slipped to him by Tati's daughter, Sophie Tatischeff, touched by his little nods to her father's Jour de F\u00eate and Monsieur Hulot in Belleville. \"I think Tati wrote the script for her. I think he felt guilty that he spent too long away from his daughter when he was working. Little girls turn into a woman in such a short period,\" Chomet says. \"Tati had this feeling that he had missed something essential. It's an extremely emotional story, so personal that I think he was afraid to make it himself. Really, she gave me a precious gift and sadly Sophie Tatischeff died from lung cancer \u2013 like her father \u2013 before I could thank her for letting me have the script.\"Its story \u2013 of a magician forced to go further and further from his family for work as variety dies \u2013 tallies uncannily with the real Jacques Tatischeff's own feelings of being at odds with the brave new modern world. The son of White Russian aristocrats, Tati often employed clowns and acrobats from music hall on his films just to give them work. Like them, he felt he was a refugee from the past and the future.It was that first visit to Edinburgh that convinced Chomet to change the setting of the film to Scotland. \"I liked the idea of the magician going to London from Paris to escape rock'n'roll, only to realise that is where it was coming from, and then being forced further and further north, doing garden parties and weddings.\" Eventually he ends up in the Hebrides, a sequence inspired by the coming of electricity to the island of Iona in 1959, which as in the film was celebrated with a ceilidh. \"What they were celebrating really was the end of their culture and way of life.\"There the illusionist meets a young Gaelic-speaking girl who is just as lost and alone as he is. \"He is reconstructing a family and the girl is craving a father figure. It all works perfectly,\" says Chomet.Setting the story in Scotland was one thing. Making it there was another. The biggest problem was finding the animators. Like the music-hall acts in the film, animators had become convinced by Hollywood that their time had passed. \"A lot of animators, basically people who can\u00a0draw, got scared by these wankers from Disney saying that 2D animation is dead, that it was only going to be 3D and Pixar from now on. It is just typical shit by people in ties who don't know what they are talking about. Are they saying that Aardman is dead, too, then? I mean how stupid are these people? Saying 2D is dead is like saying that a car race is the future of the Tour de France.\"We had trouble because the fantastic animators we found had got really stressed because they thought after our film there was not going to be any 2D any more. Some were driving buses or retraining. People really had been made to believe that the end had come. The truth is that animation is always mixing things up: pen and paper, stop motion, puppets, 3D. Suddenly this bizarre competition has been created. What it is, one more time, is this American reflex to kill off the competition, to say that you can only do it one way and destroy everything else that went before. The whole society is like that. They destroy what they have to build something new. They end up with no roots to draw on, nothing to compare their work with to see if it is good or not. American culture is in real danger of starving itself to dead. You just have to see what Hollywood is producing to see how narrow it is getting.\"Chomet's fury at Disney is the anger of someone who has fallen out of love. \"Walt Disney invented everything, he absorbed all these guys who came from the eastern countries who brought their rich cultures with them. He found this brilliant way of making money out of a new artform.\" Chomet even worked for Disney before Belleville. \"I learned an awful lot from them \u2013 how not to do it. The artists have no say any more. The suits decide everything now, and there are so many of them. It is like the dinosaurs, it has got too big and the brain is too small. With us, every cent we spend goes on the screen.\"Even so, it was to Disney that Chomet turned first for inspiration. \"101 Dalmations had a big effect on me, and you can see it in this film.\" It is true: Chomet's London and Edinburgh draw on that palette, deepened with his own lugubrious take on Tati's comedy. But, most of all, what we see is the fantastical depth and detail of images, like the history of French bande dessin\u00e9e (comic books) stacking up in the background, begging to be noticed. \"That is what I come from,\" Chomet says. \"That is my roots. We really researched Edinburgh of 1959 right down to recreating the famous chip shops of the time where everything, including the lobster, is battered. You know I miss Scotland a lot, but it is true the food is a bit special. This idea that you have to do violence to food before you eat it. Batter it up good and proper before you can eat it.\"Chomet moved back to France to live in Provence last July. \"I still love Edinburgh and Scotland and the Scots, but after five years I wanted to see a summer. I just wanted to be able to plan a picnic. Is that too much to ask? You can leave someone and still love them. It is sometimes best to go when you are still in love, before it turns bitter, like a old chip.\" Yes, Scotland has left her mark \u2013 a greasy, salt 'n' sauce shaped one \u2013 on Sylvain Chomet.The Illusionist opens the Edinburgh Film Festival June 16 at the Festival Theatre. More information: www.edfilmfest.org.uk. It goes on general release on August 20.", "tags": ["Animation", "Edinburgh film festival", "Film", "Festivals", "Culture"], "title": "Why Sylvain Chomet chose Scotland over Hollywood"},{"date": "2010-05-21T23:06:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On the train up to Scotland, I ask Maddy (aged six) what makes a good story. Without hesitation she replies, \"A spider who is a princess.\"Children have such a brutal logic of their own and God help the storyteller who cannot cope with it. I almost ring ahead to warn our host, Andy Hunter, who is meeting us next day in Kirkcaldy for a weekend of story-telling and cycling around the Fife countryside. After all, the chances of him coming up with a spider princess story are pretty remote. On the phone, he had said something about doing tales of local saints \u2013 no mention of aristocratic arachnids at all.As we speed north along the beautiful east coast rail route, passing beaches and islands and other evocative locations, I try to tease her away from this idea: sea monsters perhaps, or a holy man with magical powers on an island, or what about a princess in a tower?She eyes me pitilessly. \"Is she a spider?\"Our bike ride starts on the Saturday morning. Andy seems a genial soul, not at all fazed by Maddy's demands. \"There's the one about Robert the Bruce and the spider ...\"She nods dismissively. \"I know that one.\"Having met our other companions \u2013 Canadian expatriates Allette and Mike \u2013 we set out for the coast. Maddy and I are on one of those adult-and-child tandems \u2013 a tagalong, but she is not pedalling much. When we reach Ravenscraig Castle, she jumps off and starts leaping around on the lawns and rocks. Andy quietly starts to tell us adults about the American naval commander John Paul Jones and how his attack on Kirkcaldy in 1778 was repelled, either by a divine wind or by his mistaking the village women's red shawls for the coats of soldiers. Maddy pays this no attention whatsoever.Andy gets on to the subject of local wizard Michael Scott who was said to have flown across the heavens on an invisible horse. (A brief pause in Maddy's jumping.) Later Scott became an ambassador to the Emperor Frederick II (Maddy resumes her game of hopscotch), and managed to lock the plague in a dungeon at Glenluce Castle (momentary flicker of interest).We leave Ravenscraig and take the coastal path down to the snug little harbour of Dysart, once home to the sixth-century holy man, Saint Serf. Andy tells of the legendary connection with the desert fathers and Coptic Christianity, but Maddy isn't listening. She's dancing from foot to foot: \"I need a wee-wee \u2013 I'm desperate.\"After a stop in the local cafe we head up into the Fife countryside, taking back roads and lanes until we reach Loch Leven, a nature reserve. In the centre of the loch is a sanctuary where Saint Serf lived. Andy tells of how, as a schoolboy, Serf revived a dead robin killed by his classmates. Maddy objects. \"That's not actually possible. Magic isn't real.\"For heaven's sake, I'm thinking, get a spider princess in the frame: don't worry that they aren't real either \u2013 she won't mind. We move on until we are opposite a second island. Here Andy calls Maddy over. \"Can you see that castle on the island? That's where Mary Queen of Scots was held prisoner for more than a year \u2013 trapped like a fly in a spider's web.\"Maddy stops jittering and pays attention. Her ears are open.Andy explains how Mary escaped when her manservant managed to steal the keys. The pair of them locked the captors inside their own fortress and fled by rowing boat. As they did so, they were said to have thrown the keys into the lake where they were found three centuries later during a drought.After a further hour of cycling, we reach Kinross and our lodgings in the Salutation pub. Over dinner Andy tells stories of giants and magical snakes and red-eyed birds. Maddy is really listening hard now. She is having the traditional Scottish dinner of her choice \u2013 macaroni cheese and a can of Irn-Bru \u2013 and hearing stories. It is almost as if she has suddenly realised what is happening here: a storyteller who, unlike Daddy, does not say: \"No stories \u2013 it's bedtime.\" This man seems to like telling stories too. In fact, she discovers, if you ask him for another, he will invariably oblige. Eventually I manage to drag her away and get her to sleep.Next day as we pedal south through the Cleish Hills, Andy tells me how he got started. \"Hearing great story-tellers was very important. In 1985 I heard Willie McPhee at the Edinburgh folk festival, then there was Stanley Robertson and Duncan Williamson \u2013 both from the traveller community of Scotland. Listening to them I got the sound of the words, the cadences and rhythms.\"Is there a Scottish way of story-telling? \"Maybe there is. It's quite conversational, like a fireside chat.\"The art has undergone something of a revival in recent years all over Britain, but in Scotland the upsurge in interest has been particularly strong, not least because of the Scottish Storytelling Centre in Edinburgh which runs training courses.\"What I want to do,\" says Andy, \"is make the journey more alive and interesting by using stories about the places and things we see.\"The idea came to him after one particular experience. \"I'd cycled through Orkney and noticed, on the Isle of Hoy, the grave of a woman called Betty Corrigall. A few years later I heard her tragic story told by David Campbell and the visit to her grave suddenly came alive. I realised then how much could be done with story-telling to add to the experience of a journey. It's important,\" he adds, \"to slow down.\"He quotes Matthew Arnold: \"And see all sights from pole to pole,And glance, and nod, and bustle by,And never once possess our soulBefore we die.\"On our bikes we reach the top of a long hill and pause to hear about a robber who was bested by a clever victim. Maddy likes this one a lot. Our lonely route through dark pine forest is imbued with the possibility of adventure. The bicycle has become a horse and our saddles are filled with gold. Behind me I can hear her whipping the horse up and I don't need to pedal any more: Maddy is powering us along, her legs whizzing around, energised by tales of highwaymen. We speed all the way to Dunfermline. Maddy muttering curses at robbers and encouragement to our sturdy horse.When we finally say goodbye and board our train south, she falls asleep in an instant and doesn't wake until after Newcastle. \"Daddy,\" she says, \"Can I have a story?\"I groan inwardly. \"About a spider princess?\"\"No,\" her eyes light up. \"A robber on a horse and a farmer with gold in his saddle, or maybe a giant with a heart in his left heel.\"Her mind, I deduce, has been broadened.\u2022 Andy Hunter's Storybikes (07762 000039) offers weekend tours around Scotland from \u00a375pp per night, including dinner and breakfast; week tours from \u00a3590. The next Fife weekend is 12-13 June; the next one-week tour starts 26 September. Kevin and Maddy rode a Revolution Cross bike (\u00a3449.99) and Glider tandem trailer (\u00a3129.99) from Edinburgh Bicycle Co-operative (0845 257 0808); there are also branches in Aberdeen, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield.More information on Scotland: visitscotland.com/perfect", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Cycling holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks"], "title": "Pedaller of myths: Scotland on two wheels"},{"date": "2010-05-14T15:09:44Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "David Cameron confirmed that Scotland will be given greater taxation powers, possibly including the power to set its own income tax rates, and may receive millions of pounds released by the Treasury when he spoke at the Scottish parliament today.In the first moves to live up to his promised \"respect agenda\" with the Scottish government in Edinburgh, Cameron visited Holyrood today and promised he would implement new taxation powers proposed last year by the Calman commission set up by the Labour government and supported by the Tories and Lib Dems.Cameron did not commit to introducing specific Calman proposals, but they included allowing Scotland to set income tax rates above 10p in the pound, win capital borrowing powers and control other taxes such as aggregates tax and stamp duty.He also promised to listen to Alex Salmond's demands for up to \u00a3700m in extra funding for Holyrood, including releasing Scottish money held in Treasury reserves and paying a \"consequential\" share of the money spent on Olympic regeneration in London.\"I'm looking forward to have discussions with the first minister and what he will find is I'm open to listening to all of the arguments that he may puts forward,\" Cameron said, standing alongside Danny Alexander, the new Lib Dem Scottish Secretary.\"I believe and Danny believes that we should be pursing the Calman agenda and that is a much greater degree of fiscal autonomy for Scotland, I think that is right and that's what we want to put in place.\"Cameron also confirmed that there would be no cuts in the Scottish government's grant this year, because Holyrood's budget has already been set and implemented, despite the swingeing cuts being implemented across UK government departments.\"We'd already agreed before the election that the Scottish administration could delay that process and stick to its original budget this year and that's a good example of the respect agenda in action.\"But the prime minister dismissed SNP and Labour claims that the Tories, who came fourth in Scotland last Thursday and have only one MP in Scotland, have no legitimacy and mandate in Scotland. He said the Tory and Lib Dem votes combined totalled more than the SNP received when it won the Scottish parliament elections in 2007.In the general election, the two coalition parties took a total of 878,326 votes, a 35.6% share, against the 664,227 votes (32.9%) share of the constituency votes taken by Salmond's party in 2007.\"I do believe that the Conservatives particularly have to work hard to win the trust of people in Scotland, that's why I'm here today, that's what I think \u2026 the respect agenda is all about. I think actually our coalition actually helps to make sure we build that legitimacy and strength in Scotland, combining our votes into a larger share than the SNP achieved in the Scottish parliament,\" he said.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Liberal Democrats", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "UK news"], "title": "Cameron grants Scotland greater taxation powers"},{"date": "2010-09-22T23:05:32Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "BurgheadThere are many moving and sometimes dramatic scenes in the Highlands. For me, this includes the glens, straths, high tops, moorland, ancient forests and rivers. One vista always draws me back, and that is the coastline and the sea. Last week, in this area, east of Inverness, I had the most unexpected and strangely compelling experience I have had this year.A strong gale out in the North Sea was blowing endlessly towards the coast, and the resulting sea was dramatic and awesome. The noise was almost unreal, as if out of control, as the mosaic of white tops and shades of grey had a backcloth of a dark blue sea that seemed almost ominous. In such a turmoil, I expected few birds, and there were none on the sea itself.Then, as if they had just appeared, the gannets were there, the adults white with dark-tipped wings, and with a majestic six-foot wingspan, and still the flush of summer yellow of their head feathers. Their diving reminded me of lines by the poet Norman MacCaig: \"Gannets fall like the heads of tridents / Bombarding the green silk water.\"They were conspicuous, but binoculars revealed that the birds of the year were with them in some numbers. These juveniles are supposed to be grey-brown with white flecks, but there in the strange light they looked simply black as they dived from only a few feet to catch their fish. Then, in one small part of the angry sea, there was panic as a great skua appeared and harried one young gannet until it dropped to the sea and dived.I suddenly realised there were more gannets in my view that I had seen since my last visit to St Kilda a few years ago. It was so exciting to see, and deeply moving, and it seemed that something was just right with the\u00a0world.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Country diary: Burghead, Scotland"},{"date": "2010-09-22T23:05:32Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "BurgheadThere are many moving and sometimes dramatic scenes in the Highlands. For me, this includes the glens, straths, high tops, moorland, ancient forests and rivers. One vista always draws me back, and that is the coastline and the sea. Last week, in this area, east of Inverness, I had the most unexpected and strangely compelling experience I have had this year.A strong gale out in the North Sea was blowing endlessly towards the coast, and the resulting sea was dramatic and awesome. The noise was almost unreal, as if out of control, as the mosaic of white tops and shades of grey had a backcloth of a dark blue sea that seemed almost ominous. In such a turmoil, I expected few birds, and there were none on the sea itself.Then, as if they had just appeared, the gannets were there, the adults white with dark-tipped wings, and with a majestic six-foot wingspan, and still the flush of summer yellow of their head feathers. Their diving reminded me of lines by the poet Norman MacCaig: \"Gannets fall like the heads of tridents / Bombarding the green silk water.\"They were conspicuous, but binoculars revealed that the birds of the year were with them in some numbers. These juveniles are supposed to be grey-brown with white flecks, but there in the strange light they looked simply black as they dived from only a few feet to catch their fish. Then, in one small part of the angry sea, there was panic as a great skua appeared and harried one young gannet until it dropped to the sea and dived.I suddenly realised there were more gannets in my view that I had seen since my last visit to St Kilda a few years ago. It was so exciting to see, and deeply moving, and it seemed that something was just right with the\u00a0world.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Country diary: Burghead, Scotland"},{"date": "2010-08-17T21:01:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Australian author Christos Tsiolkas, trailing controversy over his novel The Slap (hailed by some as \"Neighbours as Philip Roth might have written it\", by others damned as \"unbelievably misogynistic\") has been living in Scotland for the last few months, on a literary retreat at Cove Park on Loch Long. And for his next novel, he has taken inspiration from his surroundings. Asked on Saturday whether he had recently witnessed any incidents equivalent to the slap he saw administered at a party to a miscreant child (it was this slap that, fictionalised, becomes the starting point of his\u00a0Man Booker-longlisted novel), he described visiting Luss on\u00a0Loch Lomond. \"It was an amazing summer day,\" he said. \"All of Glasgow was there and had taken their clothes off and gone swimming in the loch. And man, was it freezing. It was just the kind of thing I was looking for: my next novel will begin at Luss with an Aussie dipping his toe into the water of the loch and thinking, 'Man, these people are crazy.'\"", "tags": ["Christos Tsiolkas", "Scotland holidays", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Christos Tsiolkas in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-09-22T23:05:32Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "BurgheadThere are many moving and sometimes dramatic scenes in the Highlands. For me, this includes the glens, straths, high tops, moorland, ancient forests and rivers. One vista always draws me back, and that is the coastline and the sea. Last week, in this area, east of Inverness, I had the most unexpected and strangely compelling experience I have had this year.A strong gale out in the North Sea was blowing endlessly towards the coast, and the resulting sea was dramatic and awesome. The noise was almost unreal, as if out of control, as the mosaic of white tops and shades of grey had a backcloth of a dark blue sea that seemed almost ominous. In such a turmoil, I expected few birds, and there were none on the sea itself.Then, as if they had just appeared, the gannets were there, the adults white with dark-tipped wings, and with a majestic six-foot wingspan, and still the flush of summer yellow of their head feathers. Their diving reminded me of lines by the poet Norman MacCaig: \"Gannets fall like the heads of tridents / Bombarding the green silk water.\"They were conspicuous, but binoculars revealed that the birds of the year were with them in some numbers. These juveniles are supposed to be grey-brown with white flecks, but there in the strange light they looked simply black as they dived from only a few feet to catch their fish. Then, in one small part of the angry sea, there was panic as a great skua appeared and harried one young gannet until it dropped to the sea and dived.I suddenly realised there were more gannets in my view that I had seen since my last visit to St Kilda a few years ago. It was so exciting to see, and deeply moving, and it seemed that something was just right with the\u00a0world.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Country diary: Burghead, Scotland"},{"date": "2010-08-17T21:01:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Australian author Christos Tsiolkas, trailing controversy over his novel The Slap (hailed by some as \"Neighbours as Philip Roth might have written it\", by others damned as \"unbelievably misogynistic\") has been living in Scotland for the last few months, on a literary retreat at Cove Park on Loch Long. And for his next novel, he has taken inspiration from his surroundings. Asked on Saturday whether he had recently witnessed any incidents equivalent to the slap he saw administered at a party to a miscreant child (it was this slap that, fictionalised, becomes the starting point of his\u00a0Man Booker-longlisted novel), he described visiting Luss on\u00a0Loch Lomond. \"It was an amazing summer day,\" he said. \"All of Glasgow was there and had taken their clothes off and gone swimming in the loch. And man, was it freezing. It was just the kind of thing I was looking for: my next novel will begin at Luss with an Aussie dipping his toe into the water of the loch and thinking, 'Man, these people are crazy.'\"", "tags": ["Christos Tsiolkas", "Scotland holidays", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Christos Tsiolkas in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-09-27T09:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In a pre-tender advertisement in the Official Journal of the European Union on 24 September 2010, Transport Scotland says it is looking for a contractor to develop and support ICT for the Scottish Integrated Roads Information System (Siris).On 2 August 2010, the agency became responsible for trunk roads and the contract will also be expected to deliver annual road condition surveys of Scotland's trunk road network.If it goes ahead, the deal will run from 2011.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Transport", "Geographical information"], "title": "Transport Scotland plans roads IS"},{"date": "2010-09-22T23:05:32Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "BurgheadThere are many moving and sometimes dramatic scenes in the Highlands. For me, this includes the glens, straths, high tops, moorland, ancient forests and rivers. One vista always draws me back, and that is the coastline and the sea. Last week, in this area, east of Inverness, I had the most unexpected and strangely compelling experience I have had this year.A strong gale out in the North Sea was blowing endlessly towards the coast, and the resulting sea was dramatic and awesome. The noise was almost unreal, as if out of control, as the mosaic of white tops and shades of grey had a backcloth of a dark blue sea that seemed almost ominous. In such a turmoil, I expected few birds, and there were none on the sea itself.Then, as if they had just appeared, the gannets were there, the adults white with dark-tipped wings, and with a majestic six-foot wingspan, and still the flush of summer yellow of their head feathers. Their diving reminded me of lines by the poet Norman MacCaig: \"Gannets fall like the heads of tridents / Bombarding the green silk water.\"They were conspicuous, but binoculars revealed that the birds of the year were with them in some numbers. These juveniles are supposed to be grey-brown with white flecks, but there in the strange light they looked simply black as they dived from only a few feet to catch their fish. Then, in one small part of the angry sea, there was panic as a great skua appeared and harried one young gannet until it dropped to the sea and dived.I suddenly realised there were more gannets in my view that I had seen since my last visit to St Kilda a few years ago. It was so exciting to see, and deeply moving, and it seemed that something was just right with the\u00a0world.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Country diary: Burghead, Scotland"},{"date": "2010-08-17T21:01:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Australian author Christos Tsiolkas, trailing controversy over his novel The Slap (hailed by some as \"Neighbours as Philip Roth might have written it\", by others damned as \"unbelievably misogynistic\") has been living in Scotland for the last few months, on a literary retreat at Cove Park on Loch Long. And for his next novel, he has taken inspiration from his surroundings. Asked on Saturday whether he had recently witnessed any incidents equivalent to the slap he saw administered at a party to a miscreant child (it was this slap that, fictionalised, becomes the starting point of his\u00a0Man Booker-longlisted novel), he described visiting Luss on\u00a0Loch Lomond. \"It was an amazing summer day,\" he said. \"All of Glasgow was there and had taken their clothes off and gone swimming in the loch. And man, was it freezing. It was just the kind of thing I was looking for: my next novel will begin at Luss with an Aussie dipping his toe into the water of the loch and thinking, 'Man, these people are crazy.'\"", "tags": ["Christos Tsiolkas", "Scotland holidays", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Christos Tsiolkas in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-09-27T09:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In a pre-tender advertisement in the Official Journal of the European Union on 24 September 2010, Transport Scotland says it is looking for a contractor to develop and support ICT for the Scottish Integrated Roads Information System (Siris).On 2 August 2010, the agency became responsible for trunk roads and the contract will also be expected to deliver annual road condition surveys of Scotland's trunk road network.If it goes ahead, the deal will run from 2011.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Transport", "Geographical information"], "title": "Transport Scotland plans roads IS"},{"date": "2010-07-29T09:12:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The country is asking for views about which organisations the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act should affect. The 2002 act currently applies only to data held by Scotland's 10,000 public sector organisations.Under the proposals its scope could be extended to cover the data of contractors who build or maintain schools, hospitals and roads; private prison operators; leisure, sport and cultural trusts set up by local authorities; and the Glasgow Housing Association.The Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland could also be affected. Although its members are all public servants and it receives public funding, it is not covered by the current legislation.Minister for parliamentary business Bruce Crawford said: \"At this stage the Scottish Government has not reached firm conclusions on which bodies it might be appropriate to extend coverage to.\"Creating additional regulatory or financial requirements must be appropriate and proportionate, especially given the global economic downturn which has put some sectors of the economy under particular strain.\"A key part of the consultation will be our examination of any possible costs associated with any extension of coverage. The Government is committed to increasing sustainable economic growth and will only introduce legislation that is measured and proportionate.\"The consultation process will run for 14 weeks, from 28 July until 2 November 2010.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland may widen FoI to suppliers"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-08T15:42:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The framework contract has been awarded through the Central Government Centre of Procurement Expertise on behalf of various Scottish authorities.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the 8 December 2010, the vendors will provide services in seven specialist areas, which include technical architecture, applications development, GIS, data warehousing and business intelligence, testing, deployment services, and support of legacy systems. The suppliers that are involved in the contract are: Amor Business Technology Solutions; Atkins; Avian; BT; Capgemini; Civic Computing; Computer Application Services; Cygnet Solutions; Deloitte; Edge Testing Solutions; Esri; European Dynamics; Exception; Forth Valley GIS; Informed Solutions: Infoterra; Opin Systems; Pulsion Technology; SAIC; Sopra Group; and Syntel Europe.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland gets web services framework"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-08T15:42:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The framework contract has been awarded through the Central Government Centre of Procurement Expertise on behalf of various Scottish authorities.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the 8 December 2010, the vendors will provide services in seven specialist areas, which include technical architecture, applications development, GIS, data warehousing and business intelligence, testing, deployment services, and support of legacy systems. The suppliers that are involved in the contract are: Amor Business Technology Solutions; Atkins; Avian; BT; Capgemini; Civic Computing; Computer Application Services; Cygnet Solutions; Deloitte; Edge Testing Solutions; Esri; European Dynamics; Exception; Forth Valley GIS; Informed Solutions: Infoterra; Opin Systems; Pulsion Technology; SAIC; Sopra Group; and Syntel Europe.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland gets web services framework"},{"date": "2010-10-25T10:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The document, published on 22 October 2010, says that the government wants to see more public services online, as they offer huge potential for savings in the cost of delivering public services.\"The average cost for online transactions is \u00a30.27, compared with \u00a33.22 for telephone transactions and \u00a36.56 for face-to-face transactions,\" it says.Digital achievements outlined in the documents include the Scottish Centre for Telehealth; the schools' intranet called Glow; the national entitlement card; and the One Scotland Gazetteer land and property database. In December the Scottish Government will launch Tellmescotland, an online portal for advertising public information notices.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, is responsible for coordinating Scotland's digital plans. She said: \"One of the greatest challenges is to increase the relatively low levels of digital participation in Scotland. The paper published today sets out some of the action we are already taking to address this issue.\"We will publish a detailed digital strategy within the next few months setting out how we will ensure Scotland is best placed to reap the benefits of the digital revolution.\" Comments on the initial paper can be sent to the Scottish Government at digitalambition@scotland.gsi.gov.uk.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland sets out digital ambitions"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-08T15:42:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The framework contract has been awarded through the Central Government Centre of Procurement Expertise on behalf of various Scottish authorities.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the 8 December 2010, the vendors will provide services in seven specialist areas, which include technical architecture, applications development, GIS, data warehousing and business intelligence, testing, deployment services, and support of legacy systems. The suppliers that are involved in the contract are: Amor Business Technology Solutions; Atkins; Avian; BT; Capgemini; Civic Computing; Computer Application Services; Cygnet Solutions; Deloitte; Edge Testing Solutions; Esri; European Dynamics; Exception; Forth Valley GIS; Informed Solutions: Infoterra; Opin Systems; Pulsion Technology; SAIC; Sopra Group; and Syntel Europe.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland gets web services framework"},{"date": "2010-10-25T10:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The document, published on 22 October 2010, says that the government wants to see more public services online, as they offer huge potential for savings in the cost of delivering public services.\"The average cost for online transactions is \u00a30.27, compared with \u00a33.22 for telephone transactions and \u00a36.56 for face-to-face transactions,\" it says.Digital achievements outlined in the documents include the Scottish Centre for Telehealth; the schools' intranet called Glow; the national entitlement card; and the One Scotland Gazetteer land and property database. In December the Scottish Government will launch Tellmescotland, an online portal for advertising public information notices.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, is responsible for coordinating Scotland's digital plans. She said: \"One of the greatest challenges is to increase the relatively low levels of digital participation in Scotland. The paper published today sets out some of the action we are already taking to address this issue.\"We will publish a detailed digital strategy within the next few months setting out how we will ensure Scotland is best placed to reap the benefits of the digital revolution.\" Comments on the initial paper can be sent to the Scottish Government at digitalambition@scotland.gsi.gov.uk.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland sets out digital ambitions"},{"date": "2010-12-27T00:05:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland has endured its second extreme cold weather event of the winter it is hard to accept that overall the climate is warming. But the evidence is that despite human doubts, the natural world north of the border is responding to an increase in average temperatures.Flying insects, particularly noticeable ones like butterflies, are the first to take advantage of more favourable conditions and colonise new areas. Perhaps the most dramatic expansion is that of the orange tip. Thirty years ago it would have been rare to see one in Scotland but now the species is common as far north as Easter Ross and Sutherland. Only Caithness, Orkney and Shetland have yet to report sightings.Other species moving north are the comma, which has made great advances from the border regions, and the speckled wood. This seems to have moved up the coastlines rather than inland and has been seen in a nature reserve close to Dunnet Head, the most northerly point on the Scottish mainland.In the past three years two other species, the holly blue and purple hairstreak, have been spotted for the first time on National Trust properties in Scotland.With climate change there are winners and losers. The mountain ringlet, a species that is only found above 350 metres, currently has a healthy population on Ben Lawers National Nature Reserve.As average temperatures rise the species will move farther up the mountain, until the ringlet eventually runs out of suitable habitat.", "tags": ["Weather", "Insects", "Scotland holidays"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Global warming is evident in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-08T15:42:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The framework contract has been awarded through the Central Government Centre of Procurement Expertise on behalf of various Scottish authorities.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the 8 December 2010, the vendors will provide services in seven specialist areas, which include technical architecture, applications development, GIS, data warehousing and business intelligence, testing, deployment services, and support of legacy systems. The suppliers that are involved in the contract are: Amor Business Technology Solutions; Atkins; Avian; BT; Capgemini; Civic Computing; Computer Application Services; Cygnet Solutions; Deloitte; Edge Testing Solutions; Esri; European Dynamics; Exception; Forth Valley GIS; Informed Solutions: Infoterra; Opin Systems; Pulsion Technology; SAIC; Sopra Group; and Syntel Europe.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland gets web services framework"},{"date": "2010-10-25T10:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The document, published on 22 October 2010, says that the government wants to see more public services online, as they offer huge potential for savings in the cost of delivering public services.\"The average cost for online transactions is \u00a30.27, compared with \u00a33.22 for telephone transactions and \u00a36.56 for face-to-face transactions,\" it says.Digital achievements outlined in the documents include the Scottish Centre for Telehealth; the schools' intranet called Glow; the national entitlement card; and the One Scotland Gazetteer land and property database. In December the Scottish Government will launch Tellmescotland, an online portal for advertising public information notices.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, is responsible for coordinating Scotland's digital plans. She said: \"One of the greatest challenges is to increase the relatively low levels of digital participation in Scotland. The paper published today sets out some of the action we are already taking to address this issue.\"We will publish a detailed digital strategy within the next few months setting out how we will ensure Scotland is best placed to reap the benefits of the digital revolution.\" Comments on the initial paper can be sent to the Scottish Government at digitalambition@scotland.gsi.gov.uk.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland sets out digital ambitions"},{"date": "2010-12-27T00:05:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland has endured its second extreme cold weather event of the winter it is hard to accept that overall the climate is warming. But the evidence is that despite human doubts, the natural world north of the border is responding to an increase in average temperatures.Flying insects, particularly noticeable ones like butterflies, are the first to take advantage of more favourable conditions and colonise new areas. Perhaps the most dramatic expansion is that of the orange tip. Thirty years ago it would have been rare to see one in Scotland but now the species is common as far north as Easter Ross and Sutherland. Only Caithness, Orkney and Shetland have yet to report sightings.Other species moving north are the comma, which has made great advances from the border regions, and the speckled wood. This seems to have moved up the coastlines rather than inland and has been seen in a nature reserve close to Dunnet Head, the most northerly point on the Scottish mainland.In the past three years two other species, the holly blue and purple hairstreak, have been spotted for the first time on National Trust properties in Scotland.With climate change there are winners and losers. The mountain ringlet, a species that is only found above 350 metres, currently has a healthy population on Ben Lawers National Nature Reserve.As average temperatures rise the species will move farther up the mountain, until the ringlet eventually runs out of suitable habitat.", "tags": ["Weather", "Insects", "Scotland holidays"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Global warming is evident in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-12-07T21:35:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Abdelbaset al-Megrahi boarded the Libyan jet as a free man in August 2009, Scottish ministers said his release was proof of their country's humanity.Kenny MacAskill, the Scottish justice secretary, said the former Libyan intelligence officer had barely three months to live, terminally ill from inoperable prostate cancer, according to the Scottish prison service's medical experts. Condemnation from the US was vigorous. Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state said it was \"absolutely wrong\", while relatives of US victims of the Lockerbie bombing denounced it as \"vile\".MacAskill said: He repeatedly quoted messages of congratulations for showing mercy from Nelson Mandela, senior Scottish church leaders and some British relatives of the Lockerbie bombing.\"In Scotland, we are a people who pride ourselves on our humanity. It is viewed as a defining characteristic.\" Megrahi blew up Pan Am flight 103 above Lockerbie in December 1988, claiming 270 lives. His release has been the most controversial and bitterly disputed act by any minister since Scottish devolution 11 years ago.Many still dispute the medical evidence MacAskill relied on. To the Scottish government's embarrassment, Megrahi is still living at home with his wife and mother in Tripoli, his survival reportedly prolonged by chemotherapy which he was denied in Greenock prison, and by the psychological relief of being released.Scottish Labour and Tory politicians have constantly pressed for clearer medical evidence to justify the official advice that the three months was \"a reasonable prognosis\". Cancer experts have derided that conclusion, insisting that 18 months is more reasonable.So Megrahi's release immediately provoked doubts about the Scottish government's true motives. Many cited Tony Blair's desperation to secure lucrativeoil and engineering deals for UK firms in Libya: a connection made explicit by the latest WikiLeaks cables. A US senate committee is holding an inquiry into BP's intensive lobbying for a prisoner transfer deal with Libya as it bid for an $800m (\u00a3506m) oil deal. Salmond has denied any Scottish involvement or profit from BP's contracts, but clear evidence has emerged of Salmond's secret attempts to attract Qatari investments for his government's cash-starved construction programmes. The Qataris, it became clear, had intensively lobbied ministers in Edinburgh to release Megrahi. But MacAskill in turn produced letters showing the Qataris had been rebuffed and, as yet, no Qatari money has flowed to Scotland.There is a more complex theory: many seniorlegal experts, civic groups and British relatives of Lockerbie victims believe Megrahi was innocent, and would have been freed on appeal. They think he was freed chiefly to prevent the Scottish legal system from the humiliation of being blamed for the worst miscarriage of justice in British criminal history. Megrahi was released only after he dropped his appeal against his conviction just a few days before MacAskill announced his compassionate release. Megrahi's lawyers insist that there was an explicit threat: unless his appeal was abandoned, he would die in jail.The Scottish criminal cases review commission returned his case to the appeal courts because it uncovered significant new evidence suggesting he was wrongly convicted. One intelligence report which is central to that theory remains secret.Some suspect all these pressures weighed heavily on MacAskill. But no concrete proof has yet emerged to confirm any of these suspicions; Salmond continues to insist MacAskill made his decision wholly independently of any outside pressure, bribes or more sinister motives.But with the SNP facing losing power at next May's decision, and with the risk that Megrahi's funeral will be turned into a triumphant celebration already causing consternation for British diplomats, this decision will haunt both men into their retirement.", "tags": ["Abdelbaset al-Megrahi", "Lockerbie plane bombing", "Libya", "Scotland", "World news", "UK news", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Air transport", "Africa"], "title": "Lockerbie bomber: the view from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-08T15:42:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The framework contract has been awarded through the Central Government Centre of Procurement Expertise on behalf of various Scottish authorities.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the 8 December 2010, the vendors will provide services in seven specialist areas, which include technical architecture, applications development, GIS, data warehousing and business intelligence, testing, deployment services, and support of legacy systems. The suppliers that are involved in the contract are: Amor Business Technology Solutions; Atkins; Avian; BT; Capgemini; Civic Computing; Computer Application Services; Cygnet Solutions; Deloitte; Edge Testing Solutions; Esri; European Dynamics; Exception; Forth Valley GIS; Informed Solutions: Infoterra; Opin Systems; Pulsion Technology; SAIC; Sopra Group; and Syntel Europe.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland gets web services framework"},{"date": "2010-10-25T10:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The document, published on 22 October 2010, says that the government wants to see more public services online, as they offer huge potential for savings in the cost of delivering public services.\"The average cost for online transactions is \u00a30.27, compared with \u00a33.22 for telephone transactions and \u00a36.56 for face-to-face transactions,\" it says.Digital achievements outlined in the documents include the Scottish Centre for Telehealth; the schools' intranet called Glow; the national entitlement card; and the One Scotland Gazetteer land and property database. In December the Scottish Government will launch Tellmescotland, an online portal for advertising public information notices.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, is responsible for coordinating Scotland's digital plans. She said: \"One of the greatest challenges is to increase the relatively low levels of digital participation in Scotland. The paper published today sets out some of the action we are already taking to address this issue.\"We will publish a detailed digital strategy within the next few months setting out how we will ensure Scotland is best placed to reap the benefits of the digital revolution.\" Comments on the initial paper can be sent to the Scottish Government at digitalambition@scotland.gsi.gov.uk.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland sets out digital ambitions"},{"date": "2010-12-27T00:05:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland has endured its second extreme cold weather event of the winter it is hard to accept that overall the climate is warming. But the evidence is that despite human doubts, the natural world north of the border is responding to an increase in average temperatures.Flying insects, particularly noticeable ones like butterflies, are the first to take advantage of more favourable conditions and colonise new areas. Perhaps the most dramatic expansion is that of the orange tip. Thirty years ago it would have been rare to see one in Scotland but now the species is common as far north as Easter Ross and Sutherland. Only Caithness, Orkney and Shetland have yet to report sightings.Other species moving north are the comma, which has made great advances from the border regions, and the speckled wood. This seems to have moved up the coastlines rather than inland and has been seen in a nature reserve close to Dunnet Head, the most northerly point on the Scottish mainland.In the past three years two other species, the holly blue and purple hairstreak, have been spotted for the first time on National Trust properties in Scotland.With climate change there are winners and losers. The mountain ringlet, a species that is only found above 350 metres, currently has a healthy population on Ben Lawers National Nature Reserve.As average temperatures rise the species will move farther up the mountain, until the ringlet eventually runs out of suitable habitat.", "tags": ["Weather", "Insects", "Scotland holidays"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Global warming is evident in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-12-07T21:35:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Abdelbaset al-Megrahi boarded the Libyan jet as a free man in August 2009, Scottish ministers said his release was proof of their country's humanity.Kenny MacAskill, the Scottish justice secretary, said the former Libyan intelligence officer had barely three months to live, terminally ill from inoperable prostate cancer, according to the Scottish prison service's medical experts. Condemnation from the US was vigorous. Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state said it was \"absolutely wrong\", while relatives of US victims of the Lockerbie bombing denounced it as \"vile\".MacAskill said: He repeatedly quoted messages of congratulations for showing mercy from Nelson Mandela, senior Scottish church leaders and some British relatives of the Lockerbie bombing.\"In Scotland, we are a people who pride ourselves on our humanity. It is viewed as a defining characteristic.\" Megrahi blew up Pan Am flight 103 above Lockerbie in December 1988, claiming 270 lives. His release has been the most controversial and bitterly disputed act by any minister since Scottish devolution 11 years ago.Many still dispute the medical evidence MacAskill relied on. To the Scottish government's embarrassment, Megrahi is still living at home with his wife and mother in Tripoli, his survival reportedly prolonged by chemotherapy which he was denied in Greenock prison, and by the psychological relief of being released.Scottish Labour and Tory politicians have constantly pressed for clearer medical evidence to justify the official advice that the three months was \"a reasonable prognosis\". Cancer experts have derided that conclusion, insisting that 18 months is more reasonable.So Megrahi's release immediately provoked doubts about the Scottish government's true motives. Many cited Tony Blair's desperation to secure lucrativeoil and engineering deals for UK firms in Libya: a connection made explicit by the latest WikiLeaks cables. A US senate committee is holding an inquiry into BP's intensive lobbying for a prisoner transfer deal with Libya as it bid for an $800m (\u00a3506m) oil deal. Salmond has denied any Scottish involvement or profit from BP's contracts, but clear evidence has emerged of Salmond's secret attempts to attract Qatari investments for his government's cash-starved construction programmes. The Qataris, it became clear, had intensively lobbied ministers in Edinburgh to release Megrahi. But MacAskill in turn produced letters showing the Qataris had been rebuffed and, as yet, no Qatari money has flowed to Scotland.There is a more complex theory: many seniorlegal experts, civic groups and British relatives of Lockerbie victims believe Megrahi was innocent, and would have been freed on appeal. They think he was freed chiefly to prevent the Scottish legal system from the humiliation of being blamed for the worst miscarriage of justice in British criminal history. Megrahi was released only after he dropped his appeal against his conviction just a few days before MacAskill announced his compassionate release. Megrahi's lawyers insist that there was an explicit threat: unless his appeal was abandoned, he would die in jail.The Scottish criminal cases review commission returned his case to the appeal courts because it uncovered significant new evidence suggesting he was wrongly convicted. One intelligence report which is central to that theory remains secret.Some suspect all these pressures weighed heavily on MacAskill. But no concrete proof has yet emerged to confirm any of these suspicions; Salmond continues to insist MacAskill made his decision wholly independently of any outside pressure, bribes or more sinister motives.But with the SNP facing losing power at next May's decision, and with the risk that Megrahi's funeral will be turned into a triumphant celebration already causing consternation for British diplomats, this decision will haunt both men into their retirement.", "tags": ["Abdelbaset al-Megrahi", "Lockerbie plane bombing", "Libya", "Scotland", "World news", "UK news", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Air transport", "Africa"], "title": "Lockerbie bomber: the view from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-11-18T00:05:12Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There have been two key events in Scottish and Welsh politics since the UK general election in May. The first was the 20 October spending review, in which George Osborne cut current expenditure in the devolved administrations by around 7% from 2011 and capital spending by around 40%. The second was yesterday, when the two devolved governments \u2013 the minority nationalist one in Scotland and the Labour-nationalist coalition in Wales \u2013 revealed how they would pass Mr Osborne's budgetary parcel on to their voters. Yet these announcements were shaped by a third event, the Scottish and Welsh elections next May, in which all the devolved government parties aim to run as opponents of cuts emanating from the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition in London.So far, so inevitable. Yet there is a striking difference between the Edinburgh and Cardiff strategies. In Scotland, the SNP's budget covers only 2011-12. Though it aims at balance, it does nothing to address any of the large voter-friendly programmes \u2013 free personal care for the elderly, free NHS prescriptions, a council tax freeze \u2013 which help the SNP administration to mark itself out from London ways. Little is said, either, about the problematic state of Scottish university funding without any form of tuition fees. Instead, the budget gambles that efficiencies and a public sector pay freeze above \u00a321,000 will balance the books. It is, in short, a shameless electioneering budget, in which all hard choices are postponed until after next May. If voters in Scotland elect a Labour-led administration, then the SNP has given itself a \"Don't blame us; blame the London parties\" platform for opposition. If Scots re-elect the SNP, on the other hand, expect some U-turns 12 months from now in the 2012-13 budget.In Wales, where the budget is half the size of Scotland's and where revenue-raising powers are, for now, more curtailed, the Labour-Plaid budget is no less indignant but far less opportunist. Having been dealt a tough hand, the Welsh not only look ahead across the whole spending review cycle but also grasp some painful nettles, in spite of their belief that Mr Osborne's cuts are too deep and too fast. Health, schools and social services will be protected as much as possible; the economy, transport and the environment will all take big hits.In both countries, this feels like the end of the easier phase of devolution, when everything was possible. Now, in tougher times, choices between priorities have to be made. Of yesterday's two budgets, the Welsh is a more honest and progressive offer than the Scottish. But times are hard everywhere now, and the days of easy popularity for the devolved governments are drawing rapidly to a close.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Wales", "Scottish politics", "Welsh politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Spending review 2010", "Politics", "UK news", "Public finance", "Public sector cuts", "Society", "Devolution"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Passing the budget parcel | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-24T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The five principles should encourage good practice and ensure personal data is always handled with respect, said the Scottish Government. They have been devised by an expert group - including the Assistant Information Commissioner for Scotland and Registrar General - and subject to full public consultation.They involve:- proving identity or entitlement - people should not be asked to prove who they are unless it is necessary. Public bodies should ask for as little information as possible, identifying themselves and offering alternative ways to provide identity and/or entitlement for a service;- governance and accountability - public service organisations should adopt privacy and security policies and procedures;- risk management - organisations should carry out privacy impact assessments on any new initiative that enables access to services and involves the collection, storage or use of personal information;- data and data sharing - public services should minimise the personal information they hold, avoid creating centralised databases of information and store personal and transactional data separately; and - education and engagement - there should be efforts to raise public awareness of the principles and ensure those handling the data have a good working knowledge of the issues.John Swinney, cabinet secretary for finance and sustainable growth, said: \"Respect for privacy should be central to the way public services manage personal data. I want the public to be able to trust and have confidence in Scottish public services that are not only effective but also secure and privacy-friendly.\"These principles provide guidance for public sector policy makers and practitioners. I believe they are a major step forward in helping organisations achieve privacy-friendly services, and I expect them to be embraced fully.\"Ken Macdonald, the assistant information commissioner for Scotland, warned that the Information Commissioner's Office is prepared to impose fines of up to \u00a3500,000 on organisations failing to properly protect people's personal information.\"The new principles that have been developed for the Scottish Government are tailored to help public bodies to get it right first time and I would urge all authorities to ensure they are being put into practice,\" he said. \"It needn't be an arduous task and the pay-off is immeasurable as it will help to maintain the public's trust in how their information is handled by Scotland's public services.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland unveils privacy principles"},{"date": "2010-10-27T12:33:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Initially the application will be available on Apple iPhones and iPads, but Scottish Government said it has plans to it roll out to other types of mobile phone.Known as the PCS procurement app, it was produced in Dundee by iPhone application developer, Waracle.The application, launched on 26 October, will work alongside Public Contract Scotland (PCS), the official purchasing portal. The Scottish government said it will provide companies with access to \u00a39m worth of public sector business each year.It said the move is an important part of Scotland's Public Procurement Reform Programme, which is aimed at driving up standards in public service procurement.Speaking at the National Procurement Conference in Glasgow, Nicola Sturgeon, deputy first minister, said: \"The portal, and now the PCS app, make contract opportunities even more accessible to suppliers; are helping to make public sector procurement more transparent and competitive; and play key roles in achieving efficiency improvements.\"In a challenging economic climate, it is more important than ever that we make best use of available resources, and deliver greater value for money in public procurement.\"Since its launch two years ago, the PCS has attracted more than 8,000 registered suppliers and between August 2009 and July 2010 published 11,000 business opportunities. The Scottish Government has estimated that each registered supplier saves more than \u00a3400 a year in the costs of searching for public sector tenders advertised through other channels.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland launches tenders app"},{"date": "2010-12-13T19:23:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Major retailers have been forced to suspend online customers' deliveries \u2013 and in some cases even new orders \u2013 in Scotland as a result of the continuing bad weather, which is affecting thousands of Christmas shoppers.Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Boots and Parcelforce have all suspended deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. In some cases, customers have been warned that orders may not be ready in time for Christmas.The suspension of home deliveries comes as courier firms used by the retailers struggle to overcome a backlog \u2013 in some cases involving up to a week's worth of parcels built up during the recent bad weather. Generally, food and drink deliveries are unaffected.Tesco said: \"Every delivery company operating in Scotland has been affected by the recent severe weather. We don't want to cause disappointment to customers and have taken the decision to suspend new Tesco Direct orders in Scotland.\"We are working hard to ensure that orders already placed with us are delivered.\" He said grocery deliveries were unaffected.Sainsbury's said: \"Despite our best efforts, the adverse weather conditions mean we have had to suspend our non-food deliveries in Scotland. We would like to apologise to our customers for any inconvenience this has caused. Our grocery deliveries are continuing as normal.\"Marks & Spencer said: \"Due to the recent bad weather, we've had to make some changes to our deliveries to Scotland for online orders. We are still accepting orders for delivery-to-store for collection, which is free of charge, and at this time we are confident that all previously placed delivery-to-home orders will be delivered pre-Christmas.\"However, we are currently not accepting orders for delivery-to-home for Scottish postcodes as we can't guarantee a delivery date. It is very unfortunate that we've had to make this decision but we don't want to disappoint any customers.\"The bad weather has also disrupted parcel deliveries. Parcelforce said it regretted having to take the \"unprecedented decision\" not to accept deliveries for its depots in Scotland's main cities. In a statement on its website over the weekend, the delivery company said it would not be accepting any parcels for delivery in its Glasgow, Edinburgh, Perth and Aberdeen centres until it was \"confident\" it could honour Christmas deliveries.Fiona Moriarty, the director of the Scottish Retail Consortium, said: \"This is disappointing for customers, but retailers have had their hands tied and are doing their best to restore deliveries as soon as possible. They tend to use a number of major courier firms, so to an extent have had their hands tied.\"Deadlines for online shoppers wanting guaranteed delivery before Christmas vary between retailers. For John Lewis the final deadline is 3pm on 21 December, but this is later \u2013 23 December \u2013 for Marks & Spencer, Boots and Littlewoods.Snow and icy temperatures are expected to return across most of Britain on Thursday. The limit of the past few days' respite was confirmed today by the Met Office, which said the thaw would end abruptly as prevailing winds veer and allow an Arctic front to move in from Scandinavia.Temperatures are expected to drop towards the levels of 10 days ago, with lows of -10C (14F) along the eastern seaboard from Scotland to Kent. Only the south-west has a chance of escaping.\"It will be very cold and unsettled,\" said a Met Office spokeswoman. \"There is a risk of drifting leading to temporary blizzard conditions.\"Scotland had an early return of freezing temperatures today, with police reporting icy roads in many parts.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 December 2010. The original subheading and second paragraph included Amazon in the list of those companies suspending deliveries to Scottish customers using their online services. This has been deleted as incorrect.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Weather", "E-commerce", "Retail industry", "UK news"], "title": "Bad weather suspends Scotland deliveries"},{"date": "2010-12-08T15:42:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The framework contract has been awarded through the Central Government Centre of Procurement Expertise on behalf of various Scottish authorities.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the 8 December 2010, the vendors will provide services in seven specialist areas, which include technical architecture, applications development, GIS, data warehousing and business intelligence, testing, deployment services, and support of legacy systems. The suppliers that are involved in the contract are: Amor Business Technology Solutions; Atkins; Avian; BT; Capgemini; Civic Computing; Computer Application Services; Cygnet Solutions; Deloitte; Edge Testing Solutions; Esri; European Dynamics; Exception; Forth Valley GIS; Informed Solutions: Infoterra; Opin Systems; Pulsion Technology; SAIC; Sopra Group; and Syntel Europe.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Procurement"], "title": "Scotland gets web services framework"},{"date": "2010-10-25T10:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The document, published on 22 October 2010, says that the government wants to see more public services online, as they offer huge potential for savings in the cost of delivering public services.\"The average cost for online transactions is \u00a30.27, compared with \u00a33.22 for telephone transactions and \u00a36.56 for face-to-face transactions,\" it says.Digital achievements outlined in the documents include the Scottish Centre for Telehealth; the schools' intranet called Glow; the national entitlement card; and the One Scotland Gazetteer land and property database. In December the Scottish Government will launch Tellmescotland, an online portal for advertising public information notices.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, is responsible for coordinating Scotland's digital plans. She said: \"One of the greatest challenges is to increase the relatively low levels of digital participation in Scotland. The paper published today sets out some of the action we are already taking to address this issue.\"We will publish a detailed digital strategy within the next few months setting out how we will ensure Scotland is best placed to reap the benefits of the digital revolution.\" Comments on the initial paper can be sent to the Scottish Government at digitalambition@scotland.gsi.gov.uk.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland sets out digital ambitions"},{"date": "2010-12-27T00:05:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland has endured its second extreme cold weather event of the winter it is hard to accept that overall the climate is warming. But the evidence is that despite human doubts, the natural world north of the border is responding to an increase in average temperatures.Flying insects, particularly noticeable ones like butterflies, are the first to take advantage of more favourable conditions and colonise new areas. Perhaps the most dramatic expansion is that of the orange tip. Thirty years ago it would have been rare to see one in Scotland but now the species is common as far north as Easter Ross and Sutherland. Only Caithness, Orkney and Shetland have yet to report sightings.Other species moving north are the comma, which has made great advances from the border regions, and the speckled wood. This seems to have moved up the coastlines rather than inland and has been seen in a nature reserve close to Dunnet Head, the most northerly point on the Scottish mainland.In the past three years two other species, the holly blue and purple hairstreak, have been spotted for the first time on National Trust properties in Scotland.With climate change there are winners and losers. The mountain ringlet, a species that is only found above 350 metres, currently has a healthy population on Ben Lawers National Nature Reserve.As average temperatures rise the species will move farther up the mountain, until the ringlet eventually runs out of suitable habitat.", "tags": ["Weather", "Insects", "Scotland holidays"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Global warming is evident in Scotland"},{"date": "2010-12-07T21:35:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Abdelbaset al-Megrahi boarded the Libyan jet as a free man in August 2009, Scottish ministers said his release was proof of their country's humanity.Kenny MacAskill, the Scottish justice secretary, said the former Libyan intelligence officer had barely three months to live, terminally ill from inoperable prostate cancer, according to the Scottish prison service's medical experts. Condemnation from the US was vigorous. Hillary Clinton, the secretary of state said it was \"absolutely wrong\", while relatives of US victims of the Lockerbie bombing denounced it as \"vile\".MacAskill said: He repeatedly quoted messages of congratulations for showing mercy from Nelson Mandela, senior Scottish church leaders and some British relatives of the Lockerbie bombing.\"In Scotland, we are a people who pride ourselves on our humanity. It is viewed as a defining characteristic.\" Megrahi blew up Pan Am flight 103 above Lockerbie in December 1988, claiming 270 lives. His release has been the most controversial and bitterly disputed act by any minister since Scottish devolution 11 years ago.Many still dispute the medical evidence MacAskill relied on. To the Scottish government's embarrassment, Megrahi is still living at home with his wife and mother in Tripoli, his survival reportedly prolonged by chemotherapy which he was denied in Greenock prison, and by the psychological relief of being released.Scottish Labour and Tory politicians have constantly pressed for clearer medical evidence to justify the official advice that the three months was \"a reasonable prognosis\". Cancer experts have derided that conclusion, insisting that 18 months is more reasonable.So Megrahi's release immediately provoked doubts about the Scottish government's true motives. Many cited Tony Blair's desperation to secure lucrativeoil and engineering deals for UK firms in Libya: a connection made explicit by the latest WikiLeaks cables. A US senate committee is holding an inquiry into BP's intensive lobbying for a prisoner transfer deal with Libya as it bid for an $800m (\u00a3506m) oil deal. Salmond has denied any Scottish involvement or profit from BP's contracts, but clear evidence has emerged of Salmond's secret attempts to attract Qatari investments for his government's cash-starved construction programmes. The Qataris, it became clear, had intensively lobbied ministers in Edinburgh to release Megrahi. But MacAskill in turn produced letters showing the Qataris had been rebuffed and, as yet, no Qatari money has flowed to Scotland.There is a more complex theory: many seniorlegal experts, civic groups and British relatives of Lockerbie victims believe Megrahi was innocent, and would have been freed on appeal. They think he was freed chiefly to prevent the Scottish legal system from the humiliation of being blamed for the worst miscarriage of justice in British criminal history. Megrahi was released only after he dropped his appeal against his conviction just a few days before MacAskill announced his compassionate release. Megrahi's lawyers insist that there was an explicit threat: unless his appeal was abandoned, he would die in jail.The Scottish criminal cases review commission returned his case to the appeal courts because it uncovered significant new evidence suggesting he was wrongly convicted. One intelligence report which is central to that theory remains secret.Some suspect all these pressures weighed heavily on MacAskill. But no concrete proof has yet emerged to confirm any of these suspicions; Salmond continues to insist MacAskill made his decision wholly independently of any outside pressure, bribes or more sinister motives.But with the SNP facing losing power at next May's decision, and with the risk that Megrahi's funeral will be turned into a triumphant celebration already causing consternation for British diplomats, this decision will haunt both men into their retirement.", "tags": ["Abdelbaset al-Megrahi", "Lockerbie plane bombing", "Libya", "Scotland", "World news", "UK news", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Air transport", "Africa"], "title": "Lockerbie bomber: the view from Scotland"},{"date": "2010-11-18T00:05:12Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There have been two key events in Scottish and Welsh politics since the UK general election in May. The first was the 20 October spending review, in which George Osborne cut current expenditure in the devolved administrations by around 7% from 2011 and capital spending by around 40%. The second was yesterday, when the two devolved governments \u2013 the minority nationalist one in Scotland and the Labour-nationalist coalition in Wales \u2013 revealed how they would pass Mr Osborne's budgetary parcel on to their voters. Yet these announcements were shaped by a third event, the Scottish and Welsh elections next May, in which all the devolved government parties aim to run as opponents of cuts emanating from the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition in London.So far, so inevitable. Yet there is a striking difference between the Edinburgh and Cardiff strategies. In Scotland, the SNP's budget covers only 2011-12. Though it aims at balance, it does nothing to address any of the large voter-friendly programmes \u2013 free personal care for the elderly, free NHS prescriptions, a council tax freeze \u2013 which help the SNP administration to mark itself out from London ways. Little is said, either, about the problematic state of Scottish university funding without any form of tuition fees. Instead, the budget gambles that efficiencies and a public sector pay freeze above \u00a321,000 will balance the books. It is, in short, a shameless electioneering budget, in which all hard choices are postponed until after next May. If voters in Scotland elect a Labour-led administration, then the SNP has given itself a \"Don't blame us; blame the London parties\" platform for opposition. If Scots re-elect the SNP, on the other hand, expect some U-turns 12 months from now in the 2012-13 budget.In Wales, where the budget is half the size of Scotland's and where revenue-raising powers are, for now, more curtailed, the Labour-Plaid budget is no less indignant but far less opportunist. Having been dealt a tough hand, the Welsh not only look ahead across the whole spending review cycle but also grasp some painful nettles, in spite of their belief that Mr Osborne's cuts are too deep and too fast. Health, schools and social services will be protected as much as possible; the economy, transport and the environment will all take big hits.In both countries, this feels like the end of the easier phase of devolution, when everything was possible. Now, in tougher times, choices between priorities have to be made. Of yesterday's two budgets, the Welsh is a more honest and progressive offer than the Scottish. But times are hard everywhere now, and the days of easy popularity for the devolved governments are drawing rapidly to a close.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Wales", "Scottish politics", "Welsh politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Spending review 2010", "Politics", "UK news", "Public finance", "Public sector cuts", "Society", "Devolution"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Passing the budget parcel | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-11-15T10:48:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The first survey of the Scottish Government's FOI work since 2007 also shows that the average staff time taken to respond to a request was seven hours and 22 minutes.The average staff cost of responding to a review was \u00a3292 and the average staff time taken was eight hours and 35 minutes, according to the survey. The cost and time involved in appeals was significantly higher. The average staff cost was \u00a3720 and the average staff time taken was 21 hours 25 minutes.Scotland's minister for parliamentary business Bruce Crawford said: \"The publication of today's survey helps provide a clearer picture of the real cost of FOI, and helps our understanding of the associated financial challenges while we aim to improve transparency across Scotland's public sector.\"By including the cost of reviews and appeals for the first time, this survey has provided us with the most detailed analysis yet into the time and cost associated with FOI requests processed by Scottish Government staff.\"", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Efficiency"], "title": "Scotland reveals high costs of FOI"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-18T11:49:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In the South Ayrshire town of Troon, a group of sixth form pupils are working hard to scotch the myth that our young people do nothing but cause problems in their neighbourhood by drinking, getting into trouble and indulging in antisocial behaviour.Tired of some reporting that painted the town's young people as drunk and disorderly, the enterprising group is taking part in a \"pro-social behaviour\" pilot project that sees them teach alcohol awareness to younger pupils at the school.This initiative, which has been repeated in schools across the region, followed a session run by the pupils in which they gathered local decision makers and adult members of the community together in a local hotel and challenged the negative perceptions that persisted around the behaviour of Troon's young people.There they delivered the essential message of the pro-social behaviour pilots \u2013 which are now being run by Young Scot and partners in various forms elsewhere in Scotland \u2013 that young people are far more likely to contribute to their local community than cause harm to it.The pilots, which have also seen young people make DVDs, run market stalls and present a regular show on Radio Borders, have grown out of the Scottish government's framework for tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland.Published in 2009 in partnership with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (Cosla), the strategy has at its heart the notion that criminal punishment is just one part of the solution to this problem. It is an important part, but we cannot simply rely on reactively punishing those caught for these offences.We must start to address the underlying issues that cause antisocial behaviour \u2013 issues such as drink, drugs and deprivation \u2013 and begin to engage our young people and encourage them to make a positive contribution to their neighbourhoods.The Promoting Positive Outcomes framework recognises that as well as effective criminal punishment, the policy we deploy at a local and national level needs to focus on prevention as well as early and effective intervention. It aims to promote positive behaviour in Scotland's communities by creating more choices and chances for young people and stopping the behaviour that can bring misery to law abiding citizens in the first place.This is not a soft option. As well as continuing to rely on the excellent work of police and prosecuting authorities in punishing bad behaviour, this strategy looks to make offenders face up to and overcome the deep-rooted problems that is causing their behaviour \u2013 a much better way to protect communities over the long term.As such, we believe the main focus for local agencies should be on making prevention the priority with education and support for young people central. We don't want to keep taking enforcement action over and over again \u2013 we want to stop antisocial behaviour for good and help people to realise their potential.This is evidence-based policy that is strongly supported by the police, local authorities, the judiciary, community justice authorities and widely within academia. We also have the support of the Children's Reporter Administration, the voluntary sector \u2013 including Victims Support Scotland, and \u2013 most importantly from within our hard-pressed communities.Alongside Promoting Positive Outcomes, we have made significant strides with our CashBack for Communities programme, that provides diversionary activities for young people and is funded by money seized from criminals under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Since its launch in 2007, we have invested more than \u00a335m in these projects and more than half a million young people have taken part. The cashback projects are open to all, but the resources are concentrated in areas with problems with high crime and antisocial behaviour.There is more work to do, and because of the very nature of a long term strategy, some of the value will not become evident in reducing antisocial for some time. But if we truly wish to reduce antisocial behaviour in the long term, and put our young people on a positive path in life, we must solve the deep-rooted problems that fuel the problem.Fergus Ewing MSP is minister for community safety for the Scottish governmentThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network to receive more like this direct to your inbox. ", "tags": ["Housing network blog", "Housing Network", "Tenants"], "title": "Tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-18T11:49:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In the South Ayrshire town of Troon, a group of sixth form pupils are working hard to scotch the myth that our young people do nothing but cause problems in their neighbourhood by drinking, getting into trouble and indulging in antisocial behaviour.Tired of some reporting that painted the town's young people as drunk and disorderly, the enterprising group is taking part in a \"pro-social behaviour\" pilot project that sees them teach alcohol awareness to younger pupils at the school.This initiative, which has been repeated in schools across the region, followed a session run by the pupils in which they gathered local decision makers and adult members of the community together in a local hotel and challenged the negative perceptions that persisted around the behaviour of Troon's young people.There they delivered the essential message of the pro-social behaviour pilots \u2013 which are now being run by Young Scot and partners in various forms elsewhere in Scotland \u2013 that young people are far more likely to contribute to their local community than cause harm to it.The pilots, which have also seen young people make DVDs, run market stalls and present a regular show on Radio Borders, have grown out of the Scottish government's framework for tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland.Published in 2009 in partnership with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (Cosla), the strategy has at its heart the notion that criminal punishment is just one part of the solution to this problem. It is an important part, but we cannot simply rely on reactively punishing those caught for these offences.We must start to address the underlying issues that cause antisocial behaviour \u2013 issues such as drink, drugs and deprivation \u2013 and begin to engage our young people and encourage them to make a positive contribution to their neighbourhoods.The Promoting Positive Outcomes framework recognises that as well as effective criminal punishment, the policy we deploy at a local and national level needs to focus on prevention as well as early and effective intervention. It aims to promote positive behaviour in Scotland's communities by creating more choices and chances for young people and stopping the behaviour that can bring misery to law abiding citizens in the first place.This is not a soft option. As well as continuing to rely on the excellent work of police and prosecuting authorities in punishing bad behaviour, this strategy looks to make offenders face up to and overcome the deep-rooted problems that is causing their behaviour \u2013 a much better way to protect communities over the long term.As such, we believe the main focus for local agencies should be on making prevention the priority with education and support for young people central. We don't want to keep taking enforcement action over and over again \u2013 we want to stop antisocial behaviour for good and help people to realise their potential.This is evidence-based policy that is strongly supported by the police, local authorities, the judiciary, community justice authorities and widely within academia. We also have the support of the Children's Reporter Administration, the voluntary sector \u2013 including Victims Support Scotland, and \u2013 most importantly from within our hard-pressed communities.Alongside Promoting Positive Outcomes, we have made significant strides with our CashBack for Communities programme, that provides diversionary activities for young people and is funded by money seized from criminals under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Since its launch in 2007, we have invested more than \u00a335m in these projects and more than half a million young people have taken part. The cashback projects are open to all, but the resources are concentrated in areas with problems with high crime and antisocial behaviour.There is more work to do, and because of the very nature of a long term strategy, some of the value will not become evident in reducing antisocial for some time. But if we truly wish to reduce antisocial behaviour in the long term, and put our young people on a positive path in life, we must solve the deep-rooted problems that fuel the problem.Fergus Ewing MSP is minister for community safety for the Scottish governmentThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network to receive more like this direct to your inbox. ", "tags": ["Housing network blog", "Housing Network", "Tenants"], "title": "Tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-17T14:28:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish parliament has passed a bill designed to improve the way digital and other public records are stored. It is expected to receive royal assent this spring.The Public Records (Scotland) Bill is aimed at providing more consistency in the standard of record keeping and ensuring that information about individuals in properly managed.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, said: \"Nowadays records can be kept in a variety of formats, the range of which clearly could not be covered by previous legislation dating from 1937.\"She said the bill is about the good management of records, and that included identifying which are important and have long term value. The bill was brought forward by the Scottish government in response to one of the main recommendations of the Historical Abuse Systemic Review in 2007. It found that poor record keeping often created difficulties for former residents of residential schools and children's homes, when they tried to trace their records for identity, family or medical reasons.\"It is my sincere hope that in future people who have been in care will never again experience the grief and frustration of discovering that records about their earlier lives are incomplete, inaccurate - or simply not there,\" Hyslop said.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Devolved government", "Software", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Scotland strengthens digital record keeping"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-18T11:49:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In the South Ayrshire town of Troon, a group of sixth form pupils are working hard to scotch the myth that our young people do nothing but cause problems in their neighbourhood by drinking, getting into trouble and indulging in antisocial behaviour.Tired of some reporting that painted the town's young people as drunk and disorderly, the enterprising group is taking part in a \"pro-social behaviour\" pilot project that sees them teach alcohol awareness to younger pupils at the school.This initiative, which has been repeated in schools across the region, followed a session run by the pupils in which they gathered local decision makers and adult members of the community together in a local hotel and challenged the negative perceptions that persisted around the behaviour of Troon's young people.There they delivered the essential message of the pro-social behaviour pilots \u2013 which are now being run by Young Scot and partners in various forms elsewhere in Scotland \u2013 that young people are far more likely to contribute to their local community than cause harm to it.The pilots, which have also seen young people make DVDs, run market stalls and present a regular show on Radio Borders, have grown out of the Scottish government's framework for tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland.Published in 2009 in partnership with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (Cosla), the strategy has at its heart the notion that criminal punishment is just one part of the solution to this problem. It is an important part, but we cannot simply rely on reactively punishing those caught for these offences.We must start to address the underlying issues that cause antisocial behaviour \u2013 issues such as drink, drugs and deprivation \u2013 and begin to engage our young people and encourage them to make a positive contribution to their neighbourhoods.The Promoting Positive Outcomes framework recognises that as well as effective criminal punishment, the policy we deploy at a local and national level needs to focus on prevention as well as early and effective intervention. It aims to promote positive behaviour in Scotland's communities by creating more choices and chances for young people and stopping the behaviour that can bring misery to law abiding citizens in the first place.This is not a soft option. As well as continuing to rely on the excellent work of police and prosecuting authorities in punishing bad behaviour, this strategy looks to make offenders face up to and overcome the deep-rooted problems that is causing their behaviour \u2013 a much better way to protect communities over the long term.As such, we believe the main focus for local agencies should be on making prevention the priority with education and support for young people central. We don't want to keep taking enforcement action over and over again \u2013 we want to stop antisocial behaviour for good and help people to realise their potential.This is evidence-based policy that is strongly supported by the police, local authorities, the judiciary, community justice authorities and widely within academia. We also have the support of the Children's Reporter Administration, the voluntary sector \u2013 including Victims Support Scotland, and \u2013 most importantly from within our hard-pressed communities.Alongside Promoting Positive Outcomes, we have made significant strides with our CashBack for Communities programme, that provides diversionary activities for young people and is funded by money seized from criminals under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Since its launch in 2007, we have invested more than \u00a335m in these projects and more than half a million young people have taken part. The cashback projects are open to all, but the resources are concentrated in areas with problems with high crime and antisocial behaviour.There is more work to do, and because of the very nature of a long term strategy, some of the value will not become evident in reducing antisocial for some time. But if we truly wish to reduce antisocial behaviour in the long term, and put our young people on a positive path in life, we must solve the deep-rooted problems that fuel the problem.Fergus Ewing MSP is minister for community safety for the Scottish governmentThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network to receive more like this direct to your inbox. ", "tags": ["Housing network blog", "Housing Network", "Tenants"], "title": "Tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-17T14:28:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish parliament has passed a bill designed to improve the way digital and other public records are stored. It is expected to receive royal assent this spring.The Public Records (Scotland) Bill is aimed at providing more consistency in the standard of record keeping and ensuring that information about individuals in properly managed.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, said: \"Nowadays records can be kept in a variety of formats, the range of which clearly could not be covered by previous legislation dating from 1937.\"She said the bill is about the good management of records, and that included identifying which are important and have long term value. The bill was brought forward by the Scottish government in response to one of the main recommendations of the Historical Abuse Systemic Review in 2007. It found that poor record keeping often created difficulties for former residents of residential schools and children's homes, when they tried to trace their records for identity, family or medical reasons.\"It is my sincere hope that in future people who have been in care will never again experience the grief and frustration of discovering that records about their earlier lives are incomplete, inaccurate - or simply not there,\" Hyslop said.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Devolved government", "Software", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Scotland strengthens digital record keeping"},{"date": "2011-03-17T11:45:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amid all the gloom and doom about arts funding, Creative Scotland, the new public body for the arts, culture and creative industries north of the border has a positive story to tell. Setting out its stall in its first corporate plan, Creative Scotland presents an ambitious vision for Scotland's arts, culture and creative industries - supported by additional funding. It wants Scotland to be seen as one of the world's most creative nations by 2020.The core Treasury financing of some \u00a335.5m is maintained this year as well as \u00a314.5m of Scottish Government funds for specific initiatives like the Expo fund which supports Scottish work at the Edinburgh Festivals. These funds are topped up with some unspent reserves accumulated during an investment hiatus as the new body took shape. The coffers are further swollen by the reinstatement of lottery funding after the diversion to the Olympics and a significant saving on overheads achieved by the creation of the new agency and the abolishment of its antecedents, The Scottish Arts Council and Scottish Screen, achieving annual savings of \u00a32.4m through streamlining systems and a reduction of 30% in staff. That is topped off with the attraction of funds from the Paul Hamlyn and Baring Foundations signalling the intent of the new organisation to attract additional funds to achieve its ambitions.Creative Scotland has a much wider perspective than its predecessors with both a cultural and economic remit across the arts, culture and creative industries to encompass new sectors including the games industry and fashion alongside broadcasting, film, visual and performing arts and literature. That wider remit brings greater responsibility and influence but not more cash, so Creative Scotland has to lead partnerships with other investors like Scottish Enterprise to achieve its ambitious aims, among them to see a growth in Scotland's cultural economy that exceeds the UK average and to achieve the highest levels of participation in the arts in the UK.Its plans for using the funds over which it has direct control signal a fundamental shift in how funding is applied. The Scottish Arts Council, resembling the traditional 20th century arts council model, distributed funding to arts organisations and sometimes, but in a much smaller proportion, directly to artists. Creative Scotland will use its funds to deliver strategic priorities and to commission activities designed to achieve these priorities. This fundamental shift means that more than 50% of the organisations funded by the Scottish Arts Council are in a pool which will vanish. Currently \u00a318.2m is provided to 51 Foundation Organisations and \u00a38m is provided to 60 Flexibly Funded Organisations and this category will disappear to be replaced by strategic commissioning. This is bound to cause alarm amongst the Flexibly Funded Organisations, whose ranks include, for example, the Print and Sculpture Studios in Edinburgh whereas the Glasgow equivalents are included in the Foundation Organisation category, supposed to represent the cultural backbone of the country.That alarm will be compounded if Creative Scotland does not have the cash which it projects after 2011. While Creative Scotland sets out a ten year aspiration and a three year budget, it can't commit beyond this year. The current Scottish Government budget is a pre-election budget and is for one year only. With elections for the Scottish Parliament in May, which of the contesting parties will commit to funding Creative Scotland's plans?\u2022 Anne Bonnar is an arts management consultant based in Scotland and blogs at 21st century culture.", "tags": ["Culture", "Arts funding", "Arts policy", "Scotland", "Public sector cuts"], "title": "Creative Scotland offers a positive story"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-18T11:49:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In the South Ayrshire town of Troon, a group of sixth form pupils are working hard to scotch the myth that our young people do nothing but cause problems in their neighbourhood by drinking, getting into trouble and indulging in antisocial behaviour.Tired of some reporting that painted the town's young people as drunk and disorderly, the enterprising group is taking part in a \"pro-social behaviour\" pilot project that sees them teach alcohol awareness to younger pupils at the school.This initiative, which has been repeated in schools across the region, followed a session run by the pupils in which they gathered local decision makers and adult members of the community together in a local hotel and challenged the negative perceptions that persisted around the behaviour of Troon's young people.There they delivered the essential message of the pro-social behaviour pilots \u2013 which are now being run by Young Scot and partners in various forms elsewhere in Scotland \u2013 that young people are far more likely to contribute to their local community than cause harm to it.The pilots, which have also seen young people make DVDs, run market stalls and present a regular show on Radio Borders, have grown out of the Scottish government's framework for tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland.Published in 2009 in partnership with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (Cosla), the strategy has at its heart the notion that criminal punishment is just one part of the solution to this problem. It is an important part, but we cannot simply rely on reactively punishing those caught for these offences.We must start to address the underlying issues that cause antisocial behaviour \u2013 issues such as drink, drugs and deprivation \u2013 and begin to engage our young people and encourage them to make a positive contribution to their neighbourhoods.The Promoting Positive Outcomes framework recognises that as well as effective criminal punishment, the policy we deploy at a local and national level needs to focus on prevention as well as early and effective intervention. It aims to promote positive behaviour in Scotland's communities by creating more choices and chances for young people and stopping the behaviour that can bring misery to law abiding citizens in the first place.This is not a soft option. As well as continuing to rely on the excellent work of police and prosecuting authorities in punishing bad behaviour, this strategy looks to make offenders face up to and overcome the deep-rooted problems that is causing their behaviour \u2013 a much better way to protect communities over the long term.As such, we believe the main focus for local agencies should be on making prevention the priority with education and support for young people central. We don't want to keep taking enforcement action over and over again \u2013 we want to stop antisocial behaviour for good and help people to realise their potential.This is evidence-based policy that is strongly supported by the police, local authorities, the judiciary, community justice authorities and widely within academia. We also have the support of the Children's Reporter Administration, the voluntary sector \u2013 including Victims Support Scotland, and \u2013 most importantly from within our hard-pressed communities.Alongside Promoting Positive Outcomes, we have made significant strides with our CashBack for Communities programme, that provides diversionary activities for young people and is funded by money seized from criminals under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Since its launch in 2007, we have invested more than \u00a335m in these projects and more than half a million young people have taken part. The cashback projects are open to all, but the resources are concentrated in areas with problems with high crime and antisocial behaviour.There is more work to do, and because of the very nature of a long term strategy, some of the value will not become evident in reducing antisocial for some time. But if we truly wish to reduce antisocial behaviour in the long term, and put our young people on a positive path in life, we must solve the deep-rooted problems that fuel the problem.Fergus Ewing MSP is minister for community safety for the Scottish governmentThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network to receive more like this direct to your inbox. ", "tags": ["Housing network blog", "Housing Network", "Tenants"], "title": "Tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-17T14:28:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish parliament has passed a bill designed to improve the way digital and other public records are stored. It is expected to receive royal assent this spring.The Public Records (Scotland) Bill is aimed at providing more consistency in the standard of record keeping and ensuring that information about individuals in properly managed.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, said: \"Nowadays records can be kept in a variety of formats, the range of which clearly could not be covered by previous legislation dating from 1937.\"She said the bill is about the good management of records, and that included identifying which are important and have long term value. The bill was brought forward by the Scottish government in response to one of the main recommendations of the Historical Abuse Systemic Review in 2007. It found that poor record keeping often created difficulties for former residents of residential schools and children's homes, when they tried to trace their records for identity, family or medical reasons.\"It is my sincere hope that in future people who have been in care will never again experience the grief and frustration of discovering that records about their earlier lives are incomplete, inaccurate - or simply not there,\" Hyslop said.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Devolved government", "Software", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Scotland strengthens digital record keeping"},{"date": "2011-03-17T11:45:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amid all the gloom and doom about arts funding, Creative Scotland, the new public body for the arts, culture and creative industries north of the border has a positive story to tell. Setting out its stall in its first corporate plan, Creative Scotland presents an ambitious vision for Scotland's arts, culture and creative industries - supported by additional funding. It wants Scotland to be seen as one of the world's most creative nations by 2020.The core Treasury financing of some \u00a335.5m is maintained this year as well as \u00a314.5m of Scottish Government funds for specific initiatives like the Expo fund which supports Scottish work at the Edinburgh Festivals. These funds are topped up with some unspent reserves accumulated during an investment hiatus as the new body took shape. The coffers are further swollen by the reinstatement of lottery funding after the diversion to the Olympics and a significant saving on overheads achieved by the creation of the new agency and the abolishment of its antecedents, The Scottish Arts Council and Scottish Screen, achieving annual savings of \u00a32.4m through streamlining systems and a reduction of 30% in staff. That is topped off with the attraction of funds from the Paul Hamlyn and Baring Foundations signalling the intent of the new organisation to attract additional funds to achieve its ambitions.Creative Scotland has a much wider perspective than its predecessors with both a cultural and economic remit across the arts, culture and creative industries to encompass new sectors including the games industry and fashion alongside broadcasting, film, visual and performing arts and literature. That wider remit brings greater responsibility and influence but not more cash, so Creative Scotland has to lead partnerships with other investors like Scottish Enterprise to achieve its ambitious aims, among them to see a growth in Scotland's cultural economy that exceeds the UK average and to achieve the highest levels of participation in the arts in the UK.Its plans for using the funds over which it has direct control signal a fundamental shift in how funding is applied. The Scottish Arts Council, resembling the traditional 20th century arts council model, distributed funding to arts organisations and sometimes, but in a much smaller proportion, directly to artists. Creative Scotland will use its funds to deliver strategic priorities and to commission activities designed to achieve these priorities. This fundamental shift means that more than 50% of the organisations funded by the Scottish Arts Council are in a pool which will vanish. Currently \u00a318.2m is provided to 51 Foundation Organisations and \u00a38m is provided to 60 Flexibly Funded Organisations and this category will disappear to be replaced by strategic commissioning. This is bound to cause alarm amongst the Flexibly Funded Organisations, whose ranks include, for example, the Print and Sculpture Studios in Edinburgh whereas the Glasgow equivalents are included in the Foundation Organisation category, supposed to represent the cultural backbone of the country.That alarm will be compounded if Creative Scotland does not have the cash which it projects after 2011. While Creative Scotland sets out a ten year aspiration and a three year budget, it can't commit beyond this year. The current Scottish Government budget is a pre-election budget and is for one year only. With elections for the Scottish Parliament in May, which of the contesting parties will commit to funding Creative Scotland's plans?\u2022 Anne Bonnar is an arts management consultant based in Scotland and blogs at 21st century culture.", "tags": ["Culture", "Arts funding", "Arts policy", "Scotland", "Public sector cuts"], "title": "Creative Scotland offers a positive story"},{"date": "2011-03-16T11:20:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has announced that it will spend \u00a310m on a four year scheme designed to help get telehealth systems, which aid treatment of health conditions within patients' homes, used more widely. The Scottish Assisted Living Demonstrator programme will involve about 10,000 people, both the elderly and those with disabilities. The government said that the main aim of the demonstrator is to help new healthcare technology's use in the public sector including NHS Scotland, the private sector, such as housing and third sector organisations, including charities and social enterprises.NHS 24, Highlands & Island Enterprise, Scottish Enterprise, the Technology Strategy Board and the Scottish government are involved in developing the programme, with the last two providing most of the funding.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Supporting people to live independently at home is a key priority for the Scottish government. It is what older people have consistently said they want and we know it is generally better for people's health to remain at home wherever that's possible.\"Over the last four years, Scotland has made significant progress on developing and expanding new technologies to help people do just that - providing effective care and reassurance to many older people.\"Telehealth systems may help people stay in their own homes for longer, significant as by 2025 almost 1.5m people will be living with an age-related disability. The Department of Health in England is carrying out research into telehealth under its Whole Systems Demonstrator project.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Data management", "Scotland", "Health", "Mobile and remote working"], "title": "Scotland spends \u00a310m to transfer telehealth technology"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-18T11:49:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In the South Ayrshire town of Troon, a group of sixth form pupils are working hard to scotch the myth that our young people do nothing but cause problems in their neighbourhood by drinking, getting into trouble and indulging in antisocial behaviour.Tired of some reporting that painted the town's young people as drunk and disorderly, the enterprising group is taking part in a \"pro-social behaviour\" pilot project that sees them teach alcohol awareness to younger pupils at the school.This initiative, which has been repeated in schools across the region, followed a session run by the pupils in which they gathered local decision makers and adult members of the community together in a local hotel and challenged the negative perceptions that persisted around the behaviour of Troon's young people.There they delivered the essential message of the pro-social behaviour pilots \u2013 which are now being run by Young Scot and partners in various forms elsewhere in Scotland \u2013 that young people are far more likely to contribute to their local community than cause harm to it.The pilots, which have also seen young people make DVDs, run market stalls and present a regular show on Radio Borders, have grown out of the Scottish government's framework for tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland.Published in 2009 in partnership with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (Cosla), the strategy has at its heart the notion that criminal punishment is just one part of the solution to this problem. It is an important part, but we cannot simply rely on reactively punishing those caught for these offences.We must start to address the underlying issues that cause antisocial behaviour \u2013 issues such as drink, drugs and deprivation \u2013 and begin to engage our young people and encourage them to make a positive contribution to their neighbourhoods.The Promoting Positive Outcomes framework recognises that as well as effective criminal punishment, the policy we deploy at a local and national level needs to focus on prevention as well as early and effective intervention. It aims to promote positive behaviour in Scotland's communities by creating more choices and chances for young people and stopping the behaviour that can bring misery to law abiding citizens in the first place.This is not a soft option. As well as continuing to rely on the excellent work of police and prosecuting authorities in punishing bad behaviour, this strategy looks to make offenders face up to and overcome the deep-rooted problems that is causing their behaviour \u2013 a much better way to protect communities over the long term.As such, we believe the main focus for local agencies should be on making prevention the priority with education and support for young people central. We don't want to keep taking enforcement action over and over again \u2013 we want to stop antisocial behaviour for good and help people to realise their potential.This is evidence-based policy that is strongly supported by the police, local authorities, the judiciary, community justice authorities and widely within academia. We also have the support of the Children's Reporter Administration, the voluntary sector \u2013 including Victims Support Scotland, and \u2013 most importantly from within our hard-pressed communities.Alongside Promoting Positive Outcomes, we have made significant strides with our CashBack for Communities programme, that provides diversionary activities for young people and is funded by money seized from criminals under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Since its launch in 2007, we have invested more than \u00a335m in these projects and more than half a million young people have taken part. The cashback projects are open to all, but the resources are concentrated in areas with problems with high crime and antisocial behaviour.There is more work to do, and because of the very nature of a long term strategy, some of the value will not become evident in reducing antisocial for some time. But if we truly wish to reduce antisocial behaviour in the long term, and put our young people on a positive path in life, we must solve the deep-rooted problems that fuel the problem.Fergus Ewing MSP is minister for community safety for the Scottish governmentThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network to receive more like this direct to your inbox. ", "tags": ["Housing network blog", "Housing Network", "Tenants"], "title": "Tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-17T14:28:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish parliament has passed a bill designed to improve the way digital and other public records are stored. It is expected to receive royal assent this spring.The Public Records (Scotland) Bill is aimed at providing more consistency in the standard of record keeping and ensuring that information about individuals in properly managed.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, said: \"Nowadays records can be kept in a variety of formats, the range of which clearly could not be covered by previous legislation dating from 1937.\"She said the bill is about the good management of records, and that included identifying which are important and have long term value. The bill was brought forward by the Scottish government in response to one of the main recommendations of the Historical Abuse Systemic Review in 2007. It found that poor record keeping often created difficulties for former residents of residential schools and children's homes, when they tried to trace their records for identity, family or medical reasons.\"It is my sincere hope that in future people who have been in care will never again experience the grief and frustration of discovering that records about their earlier lives are incomplete, inaccurate - or simply not there,\" Hyslop said.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Devolved government", "Software", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Scotland strengthens digital record keeping"},{"date": "2011-03-17T11:45:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amid all the gloom and doom about arts funding, Creative Scotland, the new public body for the arts, culture and creative industries north of the border has a positive story to tell. Setting out its stall in its first corporate plan, Creative Scotland presents an ambitious vision for Scotland's arts, culture and creative industries - supported by additional funding. It wants Scotland to be seen as one of the world's most creative nations by 2020.The core Treasury financing of some \u00a335.5m is maintained this year as well as \u00a314.5m of Scottish Government funds for specific initiatives like the Expo fund which supports Scottish work at the Edinburgh Festivals. These funds are topped up with some unspent reserves accumulated during an investment hiatus as the new body took shape. The coffers are further swollen by the reinstatement of lottery funding after the diversion to the Olympics and a significant saving on overheads achieved by the creation of the new agency and the abolishment of its antecedents, The Scottish Arts Council and Scottish Screen, achieving annual savings of \u00a32.4m through streamlining systems and a reduction of 30% in staff. That is topped off with the attraction of funds from the Paul Hamlyn and Baring Foundations signalling the intent of the new organisation to attract additional funds to achieve its ambitions.Creative Scotland has a much wider perspective than its predecessors with both a cultural and economic remit across the arts, culture and creative industries to encompass new sectors including the games industry and fashion alongside broadcasting, film, visual and performing arts and literature. That wider remit brings greater responsibility and influence but not more cash, so Creative Scotland has to lead partnerships with other investors like Scottish Enterprise to achieve its ambitious aims, among them to see a growth in Scotland's cultural economy that exceeds the UK average and to achieve the highest levels of participation in the arts in the UK.Its plans for using the funds over which it has direct control signal a fundamental shift in how funding is applied. The Scottish Arts Council, resembling the traditional 20th century arts council model, distributed funding to arts organisations and sometimes, but in a much smaller proportion, directly to artists. Creative Scotland will use its funds to deliver strategic priorities and to commission activities designed to achieve these priorities. This fundamental shift means that more than 50% of the organisations funded by the Scottish Arts Council are in a pool which will vanish. Currently \u00a318.2m is provided to 51 Foundation Organisations and \u00a38m is provided to 60 Flexibly Funded Organisations and this category will disappear to be replaced by strategic commissioning. This is bound to cause alarm amongst the Flexibly Funded Organisations, whose ranks include, for example, the Print and Sculpture Studios in Edinburgh whereas the Glasgow equivalents are included in the Foundation Organisation category, supposed to represent the cultural backbone of the country.That alarm will be compounded if Creative Scotland does not have the cash which it projects after 2011. While Creative Scotland sets out a ten year aspiration and a three year budget, it can't commit beyond this year. The current Scottish Government budget is a pre-election budget and is for one year only. With elections for the Scottish Parliament in May, which of the contesting parties will commit to funding Creative Scotland's plans?\u2022 Anne Bonnar is an arts management consultant based in Scotland and blogs at 21st century culture.", "tags": ["Culture", "Arts funding", "Arts policy", "Scotland", "Public sector cuts"], "title": "Creative Scotland offers a positive story"},{"date": "2011-03-16T11:20:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has announced that it will spend \u00a310m on a four year scheme designed to help get telehealth systems, which aid treatment of health conditions within patients' homes, used more widely. The Scottish Assisted Living Demonstrator programme will involve about 10,000 people, both the elderly and those with disabilities. The government said that the main aim of the demonstrator is to help new healthcare technology's use in the public sector including NHS Scotland, the private sector, such as housing and third sector organisations, including charities and social enterprises.NHS 24, Highlands & Island Enterprise, Scottish Enterprise, the Technology Strategy Board and the Scottish government are involved in developing the programme, with the last two providing most of the funding.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Supporting people to live independently at home is a key priority for the Scottish government. It is what older people have consistently said they want and we know it is generally better for people's health to remain at home wherever that's possible.\"Over the last four years, Scotland has made significant progress on developing and expanding new technologies to help people do just that - providing effective care and reassurance to many older people.\"Telehealth systems may help people stay in their own homes for longer, significant as by 2025 almost 1.5m people will be living with an age-related disability. The Department of Health in England is carrying out research into telehealth under its Whole Systems Demonstrator project.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Data management", "Scotland", "Health", "Mobile and remote working"], "title": "Scotland spends \u00a310m to transfer telehealth technology"},{"date": "2011-03-14T13:17:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A nursing student arrested in connection with the Stockholm suicide bomb attack is expected to appear in court in Glasgow charged with terrorism offences.The 30-year-old man, a foreign national, was arrested in a dawn raid on a block of flats in the Whiteinch area of Glasgow last Tuesday in a joint operation involving several police forces, MI5 and Swedish intelligence.He was held on suspicion of being involved with the failed bomb attack by Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly, 28, in central Stockholm last December.Al-Abdaly, an Iraqi-born Swedish national, blew himself up and injured two people in the attack. He had been a student at the University of Luton, now the University of Bedfordshire.The man arrested in Glasgow has not been named but was known to be a nursing student at North Glasgow college in Springburn.He is the first person to be arrested in connection with the Stockholm attack and is expected to appear in the city's sheriff court.A brief police statement said: \"Strathclyde police can confirm that a 30-year-old man has been charged with offences under the Terrorism Act (2000).\"This follows an operation in the Whiteinch area of Glasgow on Tuesday 8 March.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "Sweden", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Glasgow"], "title": "Stockholm suicide attack: student charged in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-04T16:02:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's government expects to significantly extend high speed broadband across the country by 2015. It hopes eventually to have higher speeds than the rest of the UK.The broadband target is part of the government's digital strategy, launched by culture minister Fiona Hyslop on 3 March. Titled Scotland's Digital Future: a Strategy for Scotland, the document says there is great potential for the Scottish government to work with other public sector organisations to deliver improved public services through digital technology. One example is the Scottish government-backed Customer First programme. According to the government, digital investment as part of Customer First has released more than \u00a330m a year by allowing people to make online transactions.The Scottish government is currently exploring how to bring together information about public services effectively. Its DirectScot portal, currently in a prototype phase with a beta-site launch planned for 2011, aims to improve access to public services and information by providing a single convenient access point. A significant challenge facing the public sector in Scotland is how to preserve the immense and growing investment in digital assets over the long term, particularly as much public business is now carried out in digital form only.Hyslop said: \"There is a clear role for the public sector in realising Scotland's digital future - widening access to services online, encouraging increased digital participation and coordinating the rollout of next generation broadband.\"UK digital champion Martha Lane Fox said: \"Today's launch is another step forward in the Race Online 2012 ambition to achieve a networked nation. \"I look forward to working with the Scottish government to help inspire, encourage and support as many new people as possible to get online by the end of the Olympic year.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Networks"], "title": "Scotland launches digital strategy"},{"date": "2011-01-27T11:25:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The proposed legislation is aimed at correcting two shortcomings in the country's current FoI laws. One relates to the length of time before a document is designated an \"historical record\", and the other to the offence of altering records with the intent to preventing disclosure.The Scottish Government also said it intends to consult about how it can improve the FoI Act in other ways as part of bringing forward its legislative change.In 2010 ministers consulted on whether existing FoI legislation should be widened to cover a greater range of public service delivery bodies. According to Bruce Crawford, the minister for parliamentary business, an extension of FoI legislation is not favoured by most the organisations proposed for coverage.\"It was also apparent from the replies to the consultation that many of these organisations are already acting within the spirit of the act by making relevant information available, through both voluntary and statutory means,\" he said.\"Ministers believe it would be premature to extend coverage before the deficiencies in the act can be put right and the opportunity is taken to strengthen and update the current legislation.\"Crawford added that FoI has brought a welcome culture of greater openness and transparency to the work of the Scottish Government.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Software", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland beefs up FoI"},{"date": "2011-03-18T11:49:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In the South Ayrshire town of Troon, a group of sixth form pupils are working hard to scotch the myth that our young people do nothing but cause problems in their neighbourhood by drinking, getting into trouble and indulging in antisocial behaviour.Tired of some reporting that painted the town's young people as drunk and disorderly, the enterprising group is taking part in a \"pro-social behaviour\" pilot project that sees them teach alcohol awareness to younger pupils at the school.This initiative, which has been repeated in schools across the region, followed a session run by the pupils in which they gathered local decision makers and adult members of the community together in a local hotel and challenged the negative perceptions that persisted around the behaviour of Troon's young people.There they delivered the essential message of the pro-social behaviour pilots \u2013 which are now being run by Young Scot and partners in various forms elsewhere in Scotland \u2013 that young people are far more likely to contribute to their local community than cause harm to it.The pilots, which have also seen young people make DVDs, run market stalls and present a regular show on Radio Borders, have grown out of the Scottish government's framework for tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland.Published in 2009 in partnership with the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (Cosla), the strategy has at its heart the notion that criminal punishment is just one part of the solution to this problem. It is an important part, but we cannot simply rely on reactively punishing those caught for these offences.We must start to address the underlying issues that cause antisocial behaviour \u2013 issues such as drink, drugs and deprivation \u2013 and begin to engage our young people and encourage them to make a positive contribution to their neighbourhoods.The Promoting Positive Outcomes framework recognises that as well as effective criminal punishment, the policy we deploy at a local and national level needs to focus on prevention as well as early and effective intervention. It aims to promote positive behaviour in Scotland's communities by creating more choices and chances for young people and stopping the behaviour that can bring misery to law abiding citizens in the first place.This is not a soft option. As well as continuing to rely on the excellent work of police and prosecuting authorities in punishing bad behaviour, this strategy looks to make offenders face up to and overcome the deep-rooted problems that is causing their behaviour \u2013 a much better way to protect communities over the long term.As such, we believe the main focus for local agencies should be on making prevention the priority with education and support for young people central. We don't want to keep taking enforcement action over and over again \u2013 we want to stop antisocial behaviour for good and help people to realise their potential.This is evidence-based policy that is strongly supported by the police, local authorities, the judiciary, community justice authorities and widely within academia. We also have the support of the Children's Reporter Administration, the voluntary sector \u2013 including Victims Support Scotland, and \u2013 most importantly from within our hard-pressed communities.Alongside Promoting Positive Outcomes, we have made significant strides with our CashBack for Communities programme, that provides diversionary activities for young people and is funded by money seized from criminals under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Since its launch in 2007, we have invested more than \u00a335m in these projects and more than half a million young people have taken part. The cashback projects are open to all, but the resources are concentrated in areas with problems with high crime and antisocial behaviour.There is more work to do, and because of the very nature of a long term strategy, some of the value will not become evident in reducing antisocial for some time. But if we truly wish to reduce antisocial behaviour in the long term, and put our young people on a positive path in life, we must solve the deep-rooted problems that fuel the problem.Fergus Ewing MSP is minister for community safety for the Scottish governmentThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network to receive more like this direct to your inbox. ", "tags": ["Housing network blog", "Housing Network", "Tenants"], "title": "Tackling antisocial behaviour in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-17T14:28:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish parliament has passed a bill designed to improve the way digital and other public records are stored. It is expected to receive royal assent this spring.The Public Records (Scotland) Bill is aimed at providing more consistency in the standard of record keeping and ensuring that information about individuals in properly managed.Fiona Hyslop, the minister for culture and external affairs, said: \"Nowadays records can be kept in a variety of formats, the range of which clearly could not be covered by previous legislation dating from 1937.\"She said the bill is about the good management of records, and that included identifying which are important and have long term value. The bill was brought forward by the Scottish government in response to one of the main recommendations of the Historical Abuse Systemic Review in 2007. It found that poor record keeping often created difficulties for former residents of residential schools and children's homes, when they tried to trace their records for identity, family or medical reasons.\"It is my sincere hope that in future people who have been in care will never again experience the grief and frustration of discovering that records about their earlier lives are incomplete, inaccurate - or simply not there,\" Hyslop said.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Devolved government", "Software", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Scotland strengthens digital record keeping"},{"date": "2011-03-17T11:45:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amid all the gloom and doom about arts funding, Creative Scotland, the new public body for the arts, culture and creative industries north of the border has a positive story to tell. Setting out its stall in its first corporate plan, Creative Scotland presents an ambitious vision for Scotland's arts, culture and creative industries - supported by additional funding. It wants Scotland to be seen as one of the world's most creative nations by 2020.The core Treasury financing of some \u00a335.5m is maintained this year as well as \u00a314.5m of Scottish Government funds for specific initiatives like the Expo fund which supports Scottish work at the Edinburgh Festivals. These funds are topped up with some unspent reserves accumulated during an investment hiatus as the new body took shape. The coffers are further swollen by the reinstatement of lottery funding after the diversion to the Olympics and a significant saving on overheads achieved by the creation of the new agency and the abolishment of its antecedents, The Scottish Arts Council and Scottish Screen, achieving annual savings of \u00a32.4m through streamlining systems and a reduction of 30% in staff. That is topped off with the attraction of funds from the Paul Hamlyn and Baring Foundations signalling the intent of the new organisation to attract additional funds to achieve its ambitions.Creative Scotland has a much wider perspective than its predecessors with both a cultural and economic remit across the arts, culture and creative industries to encompass new sectors including the games industry and fashion alongside broadcasting, film, visual and performing arts and literature. That wider remit brings greater responsibility and influence but not more cash, so Creative Scotland has to lead partnerships with other investors like Scottish Enterprise to achieve its ambitious aims, among them to see a growth in Scotland's cultural economy that exceeds the UK average and to achieve the highest levels of participation in the arts in the UK.Its plans for using the funds over which it has direct control signal a fundamental shift in how funding is applied. The Scottish Arts Council, resembling the traditional 20th century arts council model, distributed funding to arts organisations and sometimes, but in a much smaller proportion, directly to artists. Creative Scotland will use its funds to deliver strategic priorities and to commission activities designed to achieve these priorities. This fundamental shift means that more than 50% of the organisations funded by the Scottish Arts Council are in a pool which will vanish. Currently \u00a318.2m is provided to 51 Foundation Organisations and \u00a38m is provided to 60 Flexibly Funded Organisations and this category will disappear to be replaced by strategic commissioning. This is bound to cause alarm amongst the Flexibly Funded Organisations, whose ranks include, for example, the Print and Sculpture Studios in Edinburgh whereas the Glasgow equivalents are included in the Foundation Organisation category, supposed to represent the cultural backbone of the country.That alarm will be compounded if Creative Scotland does not have the cash which it projects after 2011. While Creative Scotland sets out a ten year aspiration and a three year budget, it can't commit beyond this year. The current Scottish Government budget is a pre-election budget and is for one year only. With elections for the Scottish Parliament in May, which of the contesting parties will commit to funding Creative Scotland's plans?\u2022 Anne Bonnar is an arts management consultant based in Scotland and blogs at 21st century culture.", "tags": ["Culture", "Arts funding", "Arts policy", "Scotland", "Public sector cuts"], "title": "Creative Scotland offers a positive story"},{"date": "2011-03-16T11:20:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has announced that it will spend \u00a310m on a four year scheme designed to help get telehealth systems, which aid treatment of health conditions within patients' homes, used more widely. The Scottish Assisted Living Demonstrator programme will involve about 10,000 people, both the elderly and those with disabilities. The government said that the main aim of the demonstrator is to help new healthcare technology's use in the public sector including NHS Scotland, the private sector, such as housing and third sector organisations, including charities and social enterprises.NHS 24, Highlands & Island Enterprise, Scottish Enterprise, the Technology Strategy Board and the Scottish government are involved in developing the programme, with the last two providing most of the funding.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Supporting people to live independently at home is a key priority for the Scottish government. It is what older people have consistently said they want and we know it is generally better for people's health to remain at home wherever that's possible.\"Over the last four years, Scotland has made significant progress on developing and expanding new technologies to help people do just that - providing effective care and reassurance to many older people.\"Telehealth systems may help people stay in their own homes for longer, significant as by 2025 almost 1.5m people will be living with an age-related disability. The Department of Health in England is carrying out research into telehealth under its Whole Systems Demonstrator project.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Data management", "Scotland", "Health", "Mobile and remote working"], "title": "Scotland spends \u00a310m to transfer telehealth technology"},{"date": "2011-03-14T13:17:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A nursing student arrested in connection with the Stockholm suicide bomb attack is expected to appear in court in Glasgow charged with terrorism offences.The 30-year-old man, a foreign national, was arrested in a dawn raid on a block of flats in the Whiteinch area of Glasgow last Tuesday in a joint operation involving several police forces, MI5 and Swedish intelligence.He was held on suspicion of being involved with the failed bomb attack by Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly, 28, in central Stockholm last December.Al-Abdaly, an Iraqi-born Swedish national, blew himself up and injured two people in the attack. He had been a student at the University of Luton, now the University of Bedfordshire.The man arrested in Glasgow has not been named but was known to be a nursing student at North Glasgow college in Springburn.He is the first person to be arrested in connection with the Stockholm attack and is expected to appear in the city's sheriff court.A brief police statement said: \"Strathclyde police can confirm that a 30-year-old man has been charged with offences under the Terrorism Act (2000).\"This follows an operation in the Whiteinch area of Glasgow on Tuesday 8 March.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "Sweden", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Glasgow"], "title": "Stockholm suicide attack: student charged in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-03-09T14:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government is to set up an online system to give healthcare professionals access to a key snapshot of patient information.It is aiming to remove the need for clinical staff to log on to multiple IT systems to get obtain all the information needed for treatment. The system is expected to cover more than a quarter of the Scottish population. The government said that the move, which it has backed with \u00a34m in funding, follows the creation of a similar system that is already in use in the NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde area, which covers around 1.2 million people. The new system will be used by doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals across primary care and acute care at a consortium of four Scottish health boards which approached the Scottish government with the idea: NHS Lothian, NHS Fife, NHS Dumfries and Galloway and NHS Borders.A spokeswoman for the Scottish government said that other health boards could adopt the principle to develop their own systems.Northgate Managed Services has been named as the preferred bidder to deliver the service. Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"Investing in new technology is bringing real benefits for patients and staff across our health service. The \u00a34m investment being announced today means healthcare workers across four boards will have access to the same snapshot of information on patients.\"That not only helps make patient care quicker and safer, but also makes patient information more secure. It saves time for staff - and making care more efficient is always good news for patients.\"Martin Egan, NHS Lothian's director of e-health, said the portal was widely supported by clinicians and the prototype proved that it can integrate with the different systems used across the four health boards. \"It will deliver secure and accurate real time patient information, improving patient care and reducing our dependence on paper records,\" he said. The health boards are finalising their business cases to take the programme forward.The announcement follows other recent investments by the government in the Scottish health service including \u00a31.4m on a computerised screening system, the launch of a online health checker for people turning 40 and a new round of funding for health boards. This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Back office", "Scotland", "Data management", "Patient records", "Hospitals and acute care", "GPs and primary care", "Health", "Scotland"], "title": "Scotland to get on patient 'snapshot' IT system"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-08T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I think that the results for the Scottish parliament are not due to Alex Salmond being a charismatic leader \u2013 though he is far and away more so than the bunch of \"suits\" we have in Westminster \u2013 but to his policies (Stunning SNP victory throws the spotlight on independence vote, 7 May). No tuition fees. No council tax rises. Healthcare for the elderly etc. Could they possibly be old-fashioned socialist policies?With the Tories and the Lib Dems shunting themselves well and truly to the far right, isn't it just possible that some socialist policies south of the border might prove to be bigger vote winners than a charismatic leader?Andy BrewerLondon\u2022\u2008The Scottish Nationalists have a distinct advantage. All their leading lights want to sit at Holyrood. The most accomplished Scots in all the other parties seek to make their careers at Westminster. Consequently, since the estimable Donald Dewar, the Scottish Labour party has been led by nonentities and time-servers who attract few votes.If Gordon Brown had led Scottish Labour instead, he might now be on his fourth term as first minister in Edinburgh and David Miliband might be prime minister in London. But unless Ed\u00a0Miliband can persuade the brightest and best of Labour politicians \u2013 Douglas Alexander, Jim Murphy, Anne Begg, Alistair Darling \u2013 to go home and stand for Holyrood, the SNP will continue to win overall majorities. It's that simple.W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire\u2022\u2008You state that \"Salmond wins overall majority and promises to hold referendum on break from United Kingdom.\" This is misleading. If a referendum is held in Scotland and the electorate choose independence, it would result in the end of the United Kingdom, not a break from it.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland comes from the union of two kingdoms, Scotland and England. If Scotland decides to end the union, it will be a divorce of two kingdoms, the end of the United Kingdom. This raises interesting questions over the future status of the province of Northern Ireland and the overseas territories that still fly the union flag (a flag whose use would have to cease). Should the Falkland Islands, for example, be the property of Scotland or England? Then there is the question of the EU, would both the kingdoms have to re-apply to join? Intriguing times lie ahead.Doug HaywoodAberdeen\u2022\u2008So Ed Miliband is going to launch a review of the Labour party in Scotland (Miliband puts brave face on mixed results for his party, 7 May)? This is the wrong approach. Far better to split the Labour party into three separate parties. Scotland, Wales and England are three different countries and need Labour parties that reflect this. Each of these parties would have their own leader and policies relevant to their own country. While we still have a UK government, the parties would stand on their own manifestos and, if they formed a majority, negotiate a common programme for government.Peter EvansNorwich\u2022\u2008I agree with Jonathan Freedland that there is a real possibility that \"the union that has lasted three centuries\" might break up (Report, 7 May). But I do not think the main danger to the union will come from the SNP holding a referendum on Scottish independence.The obvious beneficiaries of an independent Scotland would be the Tories. Despite their professed support for the union, I think that any initiative to break up Britain is most likely to come from them, rather than the SNP. As Freedland says, without Scottish MPs, Westminster would be Tory for evermore.Despite lack of public support in either Slovakia or the Czech Republic, V\u00e1clav Klaus, the then rightwing Czech Republic prime minister, engineered the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1992, without a referendum, for his own political interest. The Tories have shown just how ruthless they are. Will David Cameron become the UK's V\u00e1clav Klaus?John MurrayLondon", "tags": ["Elections 2011", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish elections 2011", "Scotland", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Labour", "David Cameron", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Letters: Scotland redraws the political map"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-08T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I think that the results for the Scottish parliament are not due to Alex Salmond being a charismatic leader \u2013 though he is far and away more so than the bunch of \"suits\" we have in Westminster \u2013 but to his policies (Stunning SNP victory throws the spotlight on independence vote, 7 May). No tuition fees. No council tax rises. Healthcare for the elderly etc. Could they possibly be old-fashioned socialist policies?With the Tories and the Lib Dems shunting themselves well and truly to the far right, isn't it just possible that some socialist policies south of the border might prove to be bigger vote winners than a charismatic leader?Andy BrewerLondon\u2022\u2008The Scottish Nationalists have a distinct advantage. All their leading lights want to sit at Holyrood. The most accomplished Scots in all the other parties seek to make their careers at Westminster. Consequently, since the estimable Donald Dewar, the Scottish Labour party has been led by nonentities and time-servers who attract few votes.If Gordon Brown had led Scottish Labour instead, he might now be on his fourth term as first minister in Edinburgh and David Miliband might be prime minister in London. But unless Ed\u00a0Miliband can persuade the brightest and best of Labour politicians \u2013 Douglas Alexander, Jim Murphy, Anne Begg, Alistair Darling \u2013 to go home and stand for Holyrood, the SNP will continue to win overall majorities. It's that simple.W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire\u2022\u2008You state that \"Salmond wins overall majority and promises to hold referendum on break from United Kingdom.\" This is misleading. If a referendum is held in Scotland and the electorate choose independence, it would result in the end of the United Kingdom, not a break from it.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland comes from the union of two kingdoms, Scotland and England. If Scotland decides to end the union, it will be a divorce of two kingdoms, the end of the United Kingdom. This raises interesting questions over the future status of the province of Northern Ireland and the overseas territories that still fly the union flag (a flag whose use would have to cease). Should the Falkland Islands, for example, be the property of Scotland or England? Then there is the question of the EU, would both the kingdoms have to re-apply to join? Intriguing times lie ahead.Doug HaywoodAberdeen\u2022\u2008So Ed Miliband is going to launch a review of the Labour party in Scotland (Miliband puts brave face on mixed results for his party, 7 May)? This is the wrong approach. Far better to split the Labour party into three separate parties. Scotland, Wales and England are three different countries and need Labour parties that reflect this. Each of these parties would have their own leader and policies relevant to their own country. While we still have a UK government, the parties would stand on their own manifestos and, if they formed a majority, negotiate a common programme for government.Peter EvansNorwich\u2022\u2008I agree with Jonathan Freedland that there is a real possibility that \"the union that has lasted three centuries\" might break up (Report, 7 May). But I do not think the main danger to the union will come from the SNP holding a referendum on Scottish independence.The obvious beneficiaries of an independent Scotland would be the Tories. Despite their professed support for the union, I think that any initiative to break up Britain is most likely to come from them, rather than the SNP. As Freedland says, without Scottish MPs, Westminster would be Tory for evermore.Despite lack of public support in either Slovakia or the Czech Republic, V\u00e1clav Klaus, the then rightwing Czech Republic prime minister, engineered the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1992, without a referendum, for his own political interest. The Tories have shown just how ruthless they are. Will David Cameron become the UK's V\u00e1clav Klaus?John MurrayLondon", "tags": ["Elections 2011", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish elections 2011", "Scotland", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Labour", "David Cameron", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Letters: Scotland redraws the political map"},{"date": "2011-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Look back, this St George's Day, to 1999, when Scots and Welsh voters first elected their new devolved governments. The convergence between the results was striking. In Scotland in 1999, Labour came top of the constituency poll with 39%, with the SNP nationalists second on 29%, the Conservatives 16% and the Liberal Democrats 14%. In Wales that year, the constituency result was Labour 38%, Plaid Cymru nationalists 28%, Conservatives 16% and the Lib Dems 14%. To all intents and purposes, Scotland and Wales seemed in political step, albeit with different devolved powers. In both, although only after trying to govern alone in the Welsh case, Labour eventually took power with Liberal Democrat coalition support.Now fast forward 12 years to the latest opinion polls in the two countries for their latest devolved elections, the fourth in both cases, which are due to be held on 5 May. The striking thing today is how Scotland and Wales are no longer in step and now appear to be marching to very different drums. In Scotland this week an Ipsos Mori poll put Labour on 34%, SNP 45%, Tories 10% and Lib Dems 9%. In Wales, by contrast, on YouGov's most recent poll there, Labour is on 49%, Plaid Cymru 17%, Tories 20% and Lib Dems 8%. An opinion poll is only an opinion poll, and is certainly not an election result, but it seems increasingly possible that, while Wales is swinging heavily behind Labour in the face of the Tory-Lib Dem coalition in London, Scotland may re-elect the SNP administration that first took power there four years ago.Results like these would certainly be a blow for the London coalition parties, though hardly an unexpected one. The Lib Dems are facing a particularly brutal outcome, with the prospect of steep losses in places that have been Liberal for generations. The picture is more mixed for the Tories, who retain a stronger position in Wales than in Scotland. Yet there is some solace for the UK coalition too. These are the first devolved elections to take place with Labour, the original begetter of devolution, no longer in power at Westminster. After a torrid first year for the London government, Labour might have expected that the voters would place the party firmly in its traditional place at the head of the Welsh and Scottish opposition. A few months ago this still looked likely. Now, an important lesson, it is much less certain. Reasonably enough, voters in both countries seem to be thinking at least as much about the politics of Wales and Scotland as about the UK. In Wales that benefits Labour rather than the nationalists. In Scotland the effect increasingly looks to be the reverse. But that's the logic of devolution. The union may survive. But the old ties no longer bind as tightly as before.", "tags": ["Wales", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Different drums | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-08T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I think that the results for the Scottish parliament are not due to Alex Salmond being a charismatic leader \u2013 though he is far and away more so than the bunch of \"suits\" we have in Westminster \u2013 but to his policies (Stunning SNP victory throws the spotlight on independence vote, 7 May). No tuition fees. No council tax rises. Healthcare for the elderly etc. Could they possibly be old-fashioned socialist policies?With the Tories and the Lib Dems shunting themselves well and truly to the far right, isn't it just possible that some socialist policies south of the border might prove to be bigger vote winners than a charismatic leader?Andy BrewerLondon\u2022\u2008The Scottish Nationalists have a distinct advantage. All their leading lights want to sit at Holyrood. The most accomplished Scots in all the other parties seek to make their careers at Westminster. Consequently, since the estimable Donald Dewar, the Scottish Labour party has been led by nonentities and time-servers who attract few votes.If Gordon Brown had led Scottish Labour instead, he might now be on his fourth term as first minister in Edinburgh and David Miliband might be prime minister in London. But unless Ed\u00a0Miliband can persuade the brightest and best of Labour politicians \u2013 Douglas Alexander, Jim Murphy, Anne Begg, Alistair Darling \u2013 to go home and stand for Holyrood, the SNP will continue to win overall majorities. It's that simple.W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire\u2022\u2008You state that \"Salmond wins overall majority and promises to hold referendum on break from United Kingdom.\" This is misleading. If a referendum is held in Scotland and the electorate choose independence, it would result in the end of the United Kingdom, not a break from it.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland comes from the union of two kingdoms, Scotland and England. If Scotland decides to end the union, it will be a divorce of two kingdoms, the end of the United Kingdom. This raises interesting questions over the future status of the province of Northern Ireland and the overseas territories that still fly the union flag (a flag whose use would have to cease). Should the Falkland Islands, for example, be the property of Scotland or England? Then there is the question of the EU, would both the kingdoms have to re-apply to join? Intriguing times lie ahead.Doug HaywoodAberdeen\u2022\u2008So Ed Miliband is going to launch a review of the Labour party in Scotland (Miliband puts brave face on mixed results for his party, 7 May)? This is the wrong approach. Far better to split the Labour party into three separate parties. Scotland, Wales and England are three different countries and need Labour parties that reflect this. Each of these parties would have their own leader and policies relevant to their own country. While we still have a UK government, the parties would stand on their own manifestos and, if they formed a majority, negotiate a common programme for government.Peter EvansNorwich\u2022\u2008I agree with Jonathan Freedland that there is a real possibility that \"the union that has lasted three centuries\" might break up (Report, 7 May). But I do not think the main danger to the union will come from the SNP holding a referendum on Scottish independence.The obvious beneficiaries of an independent Scotland would be the Tories. Despite their professed support for the union, I think that any initiative to break up Britain is most likely to come from them, rather than the SNP. As Freedland says, without Scottish MPs, Westminster would be Tory for evermore.Despite lack of public support in either Slovakia or the Czech Republic, V\u00e1clav Klaus, the then rightwing Czech Republic prime minister, engineered the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1992, without a referendum, for his own political interest. The Tories have shown just how ruthless they are. Will David Cameron become the UK's V\u00e1clav Klaus?John MurrayLondon", "tags": ["Elections 2011", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish elections 2011", "Scotland", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Labour", "David Cameron", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Letters: Scotland redraws the political map"},{"date": "2011-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Look back, this St George's Day, to 1999, when Scots and Welsh voters first elected their new devolved governments. The convergence between the results was striking. In Scotland in 1999, Labour came top of the constituency poll with 39%, with the SNP nationalists second on 29%, the Conservatives 16% and the Liberal Democrats 14%. In Wales that year, the constituency result was Labour 38%, Plaid Cymru nationalists 28%, Conservatives 16% and the Lib Dems 14%. To all intents and purposes, Scotland and Wales seemed in political step, albeit with different devolved powers. In both, although only after trying to govern alone in the Welsh case, Labour eventually took power with Liberal Democrat coalition support.Now fast forward 12 years to the latest opinion polls in the two countries for their latest devolved elections, the fourth in both cases, which are due to be held on 5 May. The striking thing today is how Scotland and Wales are no longer in step and now appear to be marching to very different drums. In Scotland this week an Ipsos Mori poll put Labour on 34%, SNP 45%, Tories 10% and Lib Dems 9%. In Wales, by contrast, on YouGov's most recent poll there, Labour is on 49%, Plaid Cymru 17%, Tories 20% and Lib Dems 8%. An opinion poll is only an opinion poll, and is certainly not an election result, but it seems increasingly possible that, while Wales is swinging heavily behind Labour in the face of the Tory-Lib Dem coalition in London, Scotland may re-elect the SNP administration that first took power there four years ago.Results like these would certainly be a blow for the London coalition parties, though hardly an unexpected one. The Lib Dems are facing a particularly brutal outcome, with the prospect of steep losses in places that have been Liberal for generations. The picture is more mixed for the Tories, who retain a stronger position in Wales than in Scotland. Yet there is some solace for the UK coalition too. These are the first devolved elections to take place with Labour, the original begetter of devolution, no longer in power at Westminster. After a torrid first year for the London government, Labour might have expected that the voters would place the party firmly in its traditional place at the head of the Welsh and Scottish opposition. A few months ago this still looked likely. Now, an important lesson, it is much less certain. Reasonably enough, voters in both countries seem to be thinking at least as much about the politics of Wales and Scotland as about the UK. In Wales that benefits Labour rather than the nationalists. In Scotland the effect increasingly looks to be the reverse. But that's the logic of devolution. The union may survive. But the old ties no longer bind as tightly as before.", "tags": ["Wales", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Different drums | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-18T09:58:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's public sector procurement organisation has awarded a contract estimated to be worth up to \u00a330m for the supply of presentation equipment, including white boards and audio visual technology, to schools and councils.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 16 April, the framework deal has been agreed by Scotland Excel and suppliers Matrix Display Systems, IDNS, SSUK, TCIB Installations and RM Education for up to three years.The companies will be expected to supply the equipment and provide maintenance and repair services.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Education"], "title": "Scotland Excel signs whiteboard deal"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-08T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I think that the results for the Scottish parliament are not due to Alex Salmond being a charismatic leader \u2013 though he is far and away more so than the bunch of \"suits\" we have in Westminster \u2013 but to his policies (Stunning SNP victory throws the spotlight on independence vote, 7 May). No tuition fees. No council tax rises. Healthcare for the elderly etc. Could they possibly be old-fashioned socialist policies?With the Tories and the Lib Dems shunting themselves well and truly to the far right, isn't it just possible that some socialist policies south of the border might prove to be bigger vote winners than a charismatic leader?Andy BrewerLondon\u2022\u2008The Scottish Nationalists have a distinct advantage. All their leading lights want to sit at Holyrood. The most accomplished Scots in all the other parties seek to make their careers at Westminster. Consequently, since the estimable Donald Dewar, the Scottish Labour party has been led by nonentities and time-servers who attract few votes.If Gordon Brown had led Scottish Labour instead, he might now be on his fourth term as first minister in Edinburgh and David Miliband might be prime minister in London. But unless Ed\u00a0Miliband can persuade the brightest and best of Labour politicians \u2013 Douglas Alexander, Jim Murphy, Anne Begg, Alistair Darling \u2013 to go home and stand for Holyrood, the SNP will continue to win overall majorities. It's that simple.W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire\u2022\u2008You state that \"Salmond wins overall majority and promises to hold referendum on break from United Kingdom.\" This is misleading. If a referendum is held in Scotland and the electorate choose independence, it would result in the end of the United Kingdom, not a break from it.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland comes from the union of two kingdoms, Scotland and England. If Scotland decides to end the union, it will be a divorce of two kingdoms, the end of the United Kingdom. This raises interesting questions over the future status of the province of Northern Ireland and the overseas territories that still fly the union flag (a flag whose use would have to cease). Should the Falkland Islands, for example, be the property of Scotland or England? Then there is the question of the EU, would both the kingdoms have to re-apply to join? Intriguing times lie ahead.Doug HaywoodAberdeen\u2022\u2008So Ed Miliband is going to launch a review of the Labour party in Scotland (Miliband puts brave face on mixed results for his party, 7 May)? This is the wrong approach. Far better to split the Labour party into three separate parties. Scotland, Wales and England are three different countries and need Labour parties that reflect this. Each of these parties would have their own leader and policies relevant to their own country. While we still have a UK government, the parties would stand on their own manifestos and, if they formed a majority, negotiate a common programme for government.Peter EvansNorwich\u2022\u2008I agree with Jonathan Freedland that there is a real possibility that \"the union that has lasted three centuries\" might break up (Report, 7 May). But I do not think the main danger to the union will come from the SNP holding a referendum on Scottish independence.The obvious beneficiaries of an independent Scotland would be the Tories. Despite their professed support for the union, I think that any initiative to break up Britain is most likely to come from them, rather than the SNP. As Freedland says, without Scottish MPs, Westminster would be Tory for evermore.Despite lack of public support in either Slovakia or the Czech Republic, V\u00e1clav Klaus, the then rightwing Czech Republic prime minister, engineered the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1992, without a referendum, for his own political interest. The Tories have shown just how ruthless they are. Will David Cameron become the UK's V\u00e1clav Klaus?John MurrayLondon", "tags": ["Elections 2011", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish elections 2011", "Scotland", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Labour", "David Cameron", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Letters: Scotland redraws the political map"},{"date": "2011-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Look back, this St George's Day, to 1999, when Scots and Welsh voters first elected their new devolved governments. The convergence between the results was striking. In Scotland in 1999, Labour came top of the constituency poll with 39%, with the SNP nationalists second on 29%, the Conservatives 16% and the Liberal Democrats 14%. In Wales that year, the constituency result was Labour 38%, Plaid Cymru nationalists 28%, Conservatives 16% and the Lib Dems 14%. To all intents and purposes, Scotland and Wales seemed in political step, albeit with different devolved powers. In both, although only after trying to govern alone in the Welsh case, Labour eventually took power with Liberal Democrat coalition support.Now fast forward 12 years to the latest opinion polls in the two countries for their latest devolved elections, the fourth in both cases, which are due to be held on 5 May. The striking thing today is how Scotland and Wales are no longer in step and now appear to be marching to very different drums. In Scotland this week an Ipsos Mori poll put Labour on 34%, SNP 45%, Tories 10% and Lib Dems 9%. In Wales, by contrast, on YouGov's most recent poll there, Labour is on 49%, Plaid Cymru 17%, Tories 20% and Lib Dems 8%. An opinion poll is only an opinion poll, and is certainly not an election result, but it seems increasingly possible that, while Wales is swinging heavily behind Labour in the face of the Tory-Lib Dem coalition in London, Scotland may re-elect the SNP administration that first took power there four years ago.Results like these would certainly be a blow for the London coalition parties, though hardly an unexpected one. The Lib Dems are facing a particularly brutal outcome, with the prospect of steep losses in places that have been Liberal for generations. The picture is more mixed for the Tories, who retain a stronger position in Wales than in Scotland. Yet there is some solace for the UK coalition too. These are the first devolved elections to take place with Labour, the original begetter of devolution, no longer in power at Westminster. After a torrid first year for the London government, Labour might have expected that the voters would place the party firmly in its traditional place at the head of the Welsh and Scottish opposition. A few months ago this still looked likely. Now, an important lesson, it is much less certain. Reasonably enough, voters in both countries seem to be thinking at least as much about the politics of Wales and Scotland as about the UK. In Wales that benefits Labour rather than the nationalists. In Scotland the effect increasingly looks to be the reverse. But that's the logic of devolution. The union may survive. But the old ties no longer bind as tightly as before.", "tags": ["Wales", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Different drums | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-18T09:58:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's public sector procurement organisation has awarded a contract estimated to be worth up to \u00a330m for the supply of presentation equipment, including white boards and audio visual technology, to schools and councils.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 16 April, the framework deal has been agreed by Scotland Excel and suppliers Matrix Display Systems, IDNS, SSUK, TCIB Installations and RM Education for up to three years.The companies will be expected to supply the equipment and provide maintenance and repair services.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Education"], "title": "Scotland Excel signs whiteboard deal"},{"date": "2011-06-13T10:14:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Sunday Herald in Glasgow dared yesterday to pose the question: does Scotland need the Daily Record?Some 90 editorial jobs are to be axed at the Record and its sister title, the Sunday Mail, by their publisher, Trinity Mirror (last week's news report here, my comment here).The Herald said the cuts - which amount to more than 37% of the journalistic staff - \"have thrown the spotlight on the health of the Scottish press\", and asked \"media experts if the cuts will harm the health of the nation itself.\"Philip Schlesinger (academic, Glasgow University) thought \"the deep cuts\" were \"another nail in the coffin of the Scottish indigenous press\" and called on the Scottish parliament \"to wake up... and discuss the crisis...\"He argued that \"indifference to decline is sheer irresponsibility. Plurality is seen as key for Scotland's broadcasting. It is no less a principle for the future of Scotland's press.\"Stewart Kirkpatrick (editor, Caledonian Mercury, an online newspaper): \"The brutal truth is that the newspaper model is broken. It has had its day... digital innovation is the only thing that will save Scottish journalism. \"It is the only thing that offers a realistic future to the hundreds of hacks who have lost their jobs... The net is a fantastic medium for journalists to set themselves up as independents...\" (See more of his argument here).Charles McGhee (ex-editor of The Herald and honorary professor, Glasgow Caledonian University): \"One could argue that the Record and Mail could have been less fawning and more constructively critical in their support of one political party, Labour, but that's not really the point at issue.If mass-market newspapers such as the Record and quality titles like this one and The Herald and The Scotsman (and let's not forget the doughty local press also caught in the current crisis) are no longer able to cover the business of government, from Holyrood to the town hall, then everyone eventually suffers.\"Iain Gray (Scottish Labour party leader): \"There may be a deluge of information with the internet, Twitter and 24-hour TV news cycles, but newspapers are still the best source for in-depth coverage, analysis and investigative journalism...The Daily Record has iconic status in Scottish life. It may not be the mighty paper it was, but then none is...We should all fear the decline of Scottish newspaper industry because of its vital role in a healthy democracy, holding government to account...As a Labour politician I am naturally concerned. In what has always been a politically partisan market \u2013 albeit skewed to the right \u2013 the Record and the Sunday Mail were the lone Labour voices.Such political imbalance was, I would argue, never healthy. It is hard to see it getting better. That's not good for newspapers and it is not good for Scotland.\"Alex Salmond (Scotland's first minister) believes the Record and Mail \"should be part of a vibrant and flourishing media sector in Scotland\". He added:\"While I may not always have seen eye to eye with the Daily Record's editorial stance over the years, I recognise the important contribution it and its sister title have made and continue to make to our national life...Scotland needs as much homegrown news, current affairs and sports coverage as possible \u2013 whether in print, online or on the airwaves \u2013 and a vital, healthy Daily Record and Sunday Mail should be part of that media mix.\"Brian McNair (academic, now professor of journalism at Queensland University):\"The decline in the Daily Record began a long time ago, before the credit crunch, and before the internet really began to challenge the print business model.The Sun's steady rise over a period of two decades, and the Record's decline, reflected decline in Labour's core demographic in the west of Scotland, and the fact that Murdoch's red top was, to be honest, a better product.The Record simply hasn't been up to the challenge, and these job losses are the latest evidence of that...Will the paper's predicament affect the health of Scottish political culture and debate? I doubt it.\"There was also a contribution in the Sunday Herald from me, coincidentally not too dissimilar from McNair's.", "tags": ["Media", "Daily Record", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Trinity Mirror", "Newspapers", "Media downturn", "Media business"], "title": "Does Scotland really need the Daily Record?"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-08T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I think that the results for the Scottish parliament are not due to Alex Salmond being a charismatic leader \u2013 though he is far and away more so than the bunch of \"suits\" we have in Westminster \u2013 but to his policies (Stunning SNP victory throws the spotlight on independence vote, 7 May). No tuition fees. No council tax rises. Healthcare for the elderly etc. Could they possibly be old-fashioned socialist policies?With the Tories and the Lib Dems shunting themselves well and truly to the far right, isn't it just possible that some socialist policies south of the border might prove to be bigger vote winners than a charismatic leader?Andy BrewerLondon\u2022\u2008The Scottish Nationalists have a distinct advantage. All their leading lights want to sit at Holyrood. The most accomplished Scots in all the other parties seek to make their careers at Westminster. Consequently, since the estimable Donald Dewar, the Scottish Labour party has been led by nonentities and time-servers who attract few votes.If Gordon Brown had led Scottish Labour instead, he might now be on his fourth term as first minister in Edinburgh and David Miliband might be prime minister in London. But unless Ed\u00a0Miliband can persuade the brightest and best of Labour politicians \u2013 Douglas Alexander, Jim Murphy, Anne Begg, Alistair Darling \u2013 to go home and stand for Holyrood, the SNP will continue to win overall majorities. It's that simple.W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire\u2022\u2008You state that \"Salmond wins overall majority and promises to hold referendum on break from United Kingdom.\" This is misleading. If a referendum is held in Scotland and the electorate choose independence, it would result in the end of the United Kingdom, not a break from it.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland comes from the union of two kingdoms, Scotland and England. If Scotland decides to end the union, it will be a divorce of two kingdoms, the end of the United Kingdom. This raises interesting questions over the future status of the province of Northern Ireland and the overseas territories that still fly the union flag (a flag whose use would have to cease). Should the Falkland Islands, for example, be the property of Scotland or England? Then there is the question of the EU, would both the kingdoms have to re-apply to join? Intriguing times lie ahead.Doug HaywoodAberdeen\u2022\u2008So Ed Miliband is going to launch a review of the Labour party in Scotland (Miliband puts brave face on mixed results for his party, 7 May)? This is the wrong approach. Far better to split the Labour party into three separate parties. Scotland, Wales and England are three different countries and need Labour parties that reflect this. Each of these parties would have their own leader and policies relevant to their own country. While we still have a UK government, the parties would stand on their own manifestos and, if they formed a majority, negotiate a common programme for government.Peter EvansNorwich\u2022\u2008I agree with Jonathan Freedland that there is a real possibility that \"the union that has lasted three centuries\" might break up (Report, 7 May). But I do not think the main danger to the union will come from the SNP holding a referendum on Scottish independence.The obvious beneficiaries of an independent Scotland would be the Tories. Despite their professed support for the union, I think that any initiative to break up Britain is most likely to come from them, rather than the SNP. As Freedland says, without Scottish MPs, Westminster would be Tory for evermore.Despite lack of public support in either Slovakia or the Czech Republic, V\u00e1clav Klaus, the then rightwing Czech Republic prime minister, engineered the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1992, without a referendum, for his own political interest. The Tories have shown just how ruthless they are. Will David Cameron become the UK's V\u00e1clav Klaus?John MurrayLondon", "tags": ["Elections 2011", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish elections 2011", "Scotland", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Labour", "David Cameron", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Letters: Scotland redraws the political map"},{"date": "2011-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Look back, this St George's Day, to 1999, when Scots and Welsh voters first elected their new devolved governments. The convergence between the results was striking. In Scotland in 1999, Labour came top of the constituency poll with 39%, with the SNP nationalists second on 29%, the Conservatives 16% and the Liberal Democrats 14%. In Wales that year, the constituency result was Labour 38%, Plaid Cymru nationalists 28%, Conservatives 16% and the Lib Dems 14%. To all intents and purposes, Scotland and Wales seemed in political step, albeit with different devolved powers. In both, although only after trying to govern alone in the Welsh case, Labour eventually took power with Liberal Democrat coalition support.Now fast forward 12 years to the latest opinion polls in the two countries for their latest devolved elections, the fourth in both cases, which are due to be held on 5 May. The striking thing today is how Scotland and Wales are no longer in step and now appear to be marching to very different drums. In Scotland this week an Ipsos Mori poll put Labour on 34%, SNP 45%, Tories 10% and Lib Dems 9%. In Wales, by contrast, on YouGov's most recent poll there, Labour is on 49%, Plaid Cymru 17%, Tories 20% and Lib Dems 8%. An opinion poll is only an opinion poll, and is certainly not an election result, but it seems increasingly possible that, while Wales is swinging heavily behind Labour in the face of the Tory-Lib Dem coalition in London, Scotland may re-elect the SNP administration that first took power there four years ago.Results like these would certainly be a blow for the London coalition parties, though hardly an unexpected one. The Lib Dems are facing a particularly brutal outcome, with the prospect of steep losses in places that have been Liberal for generations. The picture is more mixed for the Tories, who retain a stronger position in Wales than in Scotland. Yet there is some solace for the UK coalition too. These are the first devolved elections to take place with Labour, the original begetter of devolution, no longer in power at Westminster. After a torrid first year for the London government, Labour might have expected that the voters would place the party firmly in its traditional place at the head of the Welsh and Scottish opposition. A few months ago this still looked likely. Now, an important lesson, it is much less certain. Reasonably enough, voters in both countries seem to be thinking at least as much about the politics of Wales and Scotland as about the UK. In Wales that benefits Labour rather than the nationalists. In Scotland the effect increasingly looks to be the reverse. But that's the logic of devolution. The union may survive. But the old ties no longer bind as tightly as before.", "tags": ["Wales", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Different drums | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-18T09:58:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's public sector procurement organisation has awarded a contract estimated to be worth up to \u00a330m for the supply of presentation equipment, including white boards and audio visual technology, to schools and councils.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 16 April, the framework deal has been agreed by Scotland Excel and suppliers Matrix Display Systems, IDNS, SSUK, TCIB Installations and RM Education for up to three years.The companies will be expected to supply the equipment and provide maintenance and repair services.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Education"], "title": "Scotland Excel signs whiteboard deal"},{"date": "2011-06-13T10:14:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Sunday Herald in Glasgow dared yesterday to pose the question: does Scotland need the Daily Record?Some 90 editorial jobs are to be axed at the Record and its sister title, the Sunday Mail, by their publisher, Trinity Mirror (last week's news report here, my comment here).The Herald said the cuts - which amount to more than 37% of the journalistic staff - \"have thrown the spotlight on the health of the Scottish press\", and asked \"media experts if the cuts will harm the health of the nation itself.\"Philip Schlesinger (academic, Glasgow University) thought \"the deep cuts\" were \"another nail in the coffin of the Scottish indigenous press\" and called on the Scottish parliament \"to wake up... and discuss the crisis...\"He argued that \"indifference to decline is sheer irresponsibility. Plurality is seen as key for Scotland's broadcasting. It is no less a principle for the future of Scotland's press.\"Stewart Kirkpatrick (editor, Caledonian Mercury, an online newspaper): \"The brutal truth is that the newspaper model is broken. It has had its day... digital innovation is the only thing that will save Scottish journalism. \"It is the only thing that offers a realistic future to the hundreds of hacks who have lost their jobs... The net is a fantastic medium for journalists to set themselves up as independents...\" (See more of his argument here).Charles McGhee (ex-editor of The Herald and honorary professor, Glasgow Caledonian University): \"One could argue that the Record and Mail could have been less fawning and more constructively critical in their support of one political party, Labour, but that's not really the point at issue.If mass-market newspapers such as the Record and quality titles like this one and The Herald and The Scotsman (and let's not forget the doughty local press also caught in the current crisis) are no longer able to cover the business of government, from Holyrood to the town hall, then everyone eventually suffers.\"Iain Gray (Scottish Labour party leader): \"There may be a deluge of information with the internet, Twitter and 24-hour TV news cycles, but newspapers are still the best source for in-depth coverage, analysis and investigative journalism...The Daily Record has iconic status in Scottish life. It may not be the mighty paper it was, but then none is...We should all fear the decline of Scottish newspaper industry because of its vital role in a healthy democracy, holding government to account...As a Labour politician I am naturally concerned. In what has always been a politically partisan market \u2013 albeit skewed to the right \u2013 the Record and the Sunday Mail were the lone Labour voices.Such political imbalance was, I would argue, never healthy. It is hard to see it getting better. That's not good for newspapers and it is not good for Scotland.\"Alex Salmond (Scotland's first minister) believes the Record and Mail \"should be part of a vibrant and flourishing media sector in Scotland\". He added:\"While I may not always have seen eye to eye with the Daily Record's editorial stance over the years, I recognise the important contribution it and its sister title have made and continue to make to our national life...Scotland needs as much homegrown news, current affairs and sports coverage as possible \u2013 whether in print, online or on the airwaves \u2013 and a vital, healthy Daily Record and Sunday Mail should be part of that media mix.\"Brian McNair (academic, now professor of journalism at Queensland University):\"The decline in the Daily Record began a long time ago, before the credit crunch, and before the internet really began to challenge the print business model.The Sun's steady rise over a period of two decades, and the Record's decline, reflected decline in Labour's core demographic in the west of Scotland, and the fact that Murdoch's red top was, to be honest, a better product.The Record simply hasn't been up to the challenge, and these job losses are the latest evidence of that...Will the paper's predicament affect the health of Scottish political culture and debate? I doubt it.\"There was also a contribution in the Sunday Herald from me, coincidentally not too dissimilar from McNair's.", "tags": ["Media", "Daily Record", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Trinity Mirror", "Newspapers", "Media downturn", "Media business"], "title": "Does Scotland really need the Daily Record?"},{"date": "2011-05-25T09:56:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Welsh Government and Transport Scotland have issued a joint tender for the supply of an integrated roads information system (Iris) valued between \u00a317m and \u00a319m.An advertisement in the Official Journal of the European Union says the two organisations want the supplier to \"develop, implement, support and improve\" the information system. Under the contract, Iris will be expected to deliver annual road condition surveys for Wales and Scotland.Iris will be available online and include geographic information functions, the notice says. A comprehensive set of modules will include databases about accident management, cycling provision, drainage, lighting and pavement management, the landscape and environment and speed limits.There will also be databases for information and finance management, and the successful supplier will be expected to migrate data from existing systems as part of the contract.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Transport", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Wales and Scotland seek roads ICT"},{"date": "2011-06-21T20:55:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The election of the majority Scottish Nationalist government under Alex Salmond on 5 May means that the Scotland bill, which cleared its final Commons stages yesterday, may now seem a bit irrelevant. The bill, based largely on the Calman report of 2009, is a reformist unionist bill in line with the original thinking that led to devolution in 1998. SNP opposition, and the election of the majority SNP administration, with an independence referendum in its sights, may make the bill look like yesterday's politics. Yet increased powers for Scotland are still the constitutional option favoured by a majority of Scots. So the issues in the bill still matter.Mr Salmond has actually been paying quite a lot of attention to the bill recently. He appears to be doing this for three main reasons. First, because he thinks he can win some extra concessions from London on financial matters. Second, because he wants to continue to present himself as Scotland's champion within UK politics. He cannot do this by standing aloof and simply condemning the new bill. And, third, because his independence strategy requires him to prove to pro-devolution voters that he has tried his best to make it work, but that Scotland's wishes have in fact been frustrated at every turn and that independence is therefore the only solution. Mr Salmond is out campaigning for a referendum yes vote already.Yet it is too easy to treat independence as the only issue in Scottish politics. The truth is otherwise \u2013 as it was throughout much of the 2007-11 Scottish parliament as well. Independence remains a relatively low priority for most Scots, even after 5 May. The issues that matter most are the economy and public spending, the same as elsewhere. Even the SNP has always made clear that the referendum will not come before 2014 \u2013 the Bannockburn anniversary year. Between now and then, Mr Salmond will try to take every issue \u2013 whether taxation powers, public service reform or the workings of the UK supreme court \u2013 and frame it in a nationalist manner.That may seem easy work right now, in the afterglow of 5 May and with, perhaps, a famous byelection victory over Labour in the offing at Inverclyde next week. But it will actually get a lot harder than Mr Salmond's cheery optimism would imply. Much of this focuses around paying for Scottish public services. There was a taste of that this week when the head of Scotland's local authorities, Rory Mair, challenged the SNP to show how it could bridge the \"25% gap between what we need to spend and the resources we have\".Finding the \u00a33bn to bridge that gap is just one of many big questions in Scotland to which independence is not the only answer.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "House of Commons", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland: New order, old questions | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-05-08T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I think that the results for the Scottish parliament are not due to Alex Salmond being a charismatic leader \u2013 though he is far and away more so than the bunch of \"suits\" we have in Westminster \u2013 but to his policies (Stunning SNP victory throws the spotlight on independence vote, 7 May). No tuition fees. No council tax rises. Healthcare for the elderly etc. Could they possibly be old-fashioned socialist policies?With the Tories and the Lib Dems shunting themselves well and truly to the far right, isn't it just possible that some socialist policies south of the border might prove to be bigger vote winners than a charismatic leader?Andy BrewerLondon\u2022\u2008The Scottish Nationalists have a distinct advantage. All their leading lights want to sit at Holyrood. The most accomplished Scots in all the other parties seek to make their careers at Westminster. Consequently, since the estimable Donald Dewar, the Scottish Labour party has been led by nonentities and time-servers who attract few votes.If Gordon Brown had led Scottish Labour instead, he might now be on his fourth term as first minister in Edinburgh and David Miliband might be prime minister in London. But unless Ed\u00a0Miliband can persuade the brightest and best of Labour politicians \u2013 Douglas Alexander, Jim Murphy, Anne Begg, Alistair Darling \u2013 to go home and stand for Holyrood, the SNP will continue to win overall majorities. It's that simple.W Stephen GilbertCorsham, Wiltshire\u2022\u2008You state that \"Salmond wins overall majority and promises to hold referendum on break from United Kingdom.\" This is misleading. If a referendum is held in Scotland and the electorate choose independence, it would result in the end of the United Kingdom, not a break from it.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland comes from the union of two kingdoms, Scotland and England. If Scotland decides to end the union, it will be a divorce of two kingdoms, the end of the United Kingdom. This raises interesting questions over the future status of the province of Northern Ireland and the overseas territories that still fly the union flag (a flag whose use would have to cease). Should the Falkland Islands, for example, be the property of Scotland or England? Then there is the question of the EU, would both the kingdoms have to re-apply to join? Intriguing times lie ahead.Doug HaywoodAberdeen\u2022\u2008So Ed Miliband is going to launch a review of the Labour party in Scotland (Miliband puts brave face on mixed results for his party, 7 May)? This is the wrong approach. Far better to split the Labour party into three separate parties. Scotland, Wales and England are three different countries and need Labour parties that reflect this. Each of these parties would have their own leader and policies relevant to their own country. While we still have a UK government, the parties would stand on their own manifestos and, if they formed a majority, negotiate a common programme for government.Peter EvansNorwich\u2022\u2008I agree with Jonathan Freedland that there is a real possibility that \"the union that has lasted three centuries\" might break up (Report, 7 May). But I do not think the main danger to the union will come from the SNP holding a referendum on Scottish independence.The obvious beneficiaries of an independent Scotland would be the Tories. Despite their professed support for the union, I think that any initiative to break up Britain is most likely to come from them, rather than the SNP. As Freedland says, without Scottish MPs, Westminster would be Tory for evermore.Despite lack of public support in either Slovakia or the Czech Republic, V\u00e1clav Klaus, the then rightwing Czech Republic prime minister, engineered the break-up of Czechoslovakia in 1992, without a referendum, for his own political interest. The Tories have shown just how ruthless they are. Will David Cameron become the UK's V\u00e1clav Klaus?John MurrayLondon", "tags": ["Elections 2011", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish elections 2011", "Scotland", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "Labour", "David Cameron", "Liberal Democrats"], "title": "Letters: Scotland redraws the political map"},{"date": "2011-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Look back, this St George's Day, to 1999, when Scots and Welsh voters first elected their new devolved governments. The convergence between the results was striking. In Scotland in 1999, Labour came top of the constituency poll with 39%, with the SNP nationalists second on 29%, the Conservatives 16% and the Liberal Democrats 14%. In Wales that year, the constituency result was Labour 38%, Plaid Cymru nationalists 28%, Conservatives 16% and the Lib Dems 14%. To all intents and purposes, Scotland and Wales seemed in political step, albeit with different devolved powers. In both, although only after trying to govern alone in the Welsh case, Labour eventually took power with Liberal Democrat coalition support.Now fast forward 12 years to the latest opinion polls in the two countries for their latest devolved elections, the fourth in both cases, which are due to be held on 5 May. The striking thing today is how Scotland and Wales are no longer in step and now appear to be marching to very different drums. In Scotland this week an Ipsos Mori poll put Labour on 34%, SNP 45%, Tories 10% and Lib Dems 9%. In Wales, by contrast, on YouGov's most recent poll there, Labour is on 49%, Plaid Cymru 17%, Tories 20% and Lib Dems 8%. An opinion poll is only an opinion poll, and is certainly not an election result, but it seems increasingly possible that, while Wales is swinging heavily behind Labour in the face of the Tory-Lib Dem coalition in London, Scotland may re-elect the SNP administration that first took power there four years ago.Results like these would certainly be a blow for the London coalition parties, though hardly an unexpected one. The Lib Dems are facing a particularly brutal outcome, with the prospect of steep losses in places that have been Liberal for generations. The picture is more mixed for the Tories, who retain a stronger position in Wales than in Scotland. Yet there is some solace for the UK coalition too. These are the first devolved elections to take place with Labour, the original begetter of devolution, no longer in power at Westminster. After a torrid first year for the London government, Labour might have expected that the voters would place the party firmly in its traditional place at the head of the Welsh and Scottish opposition. A few months ago this still looked likely. Now, an important lesson, it is much less certain. Reasonably enough, voters in both countries seem to be thinking at least as much about the politics of Wales and Scotland as about the UK. In Wales that benefits Labour rather than the nationalists. In Scotland the effect increasingly looks to be the reverse. But that's the logic of devolution. The union may survive. But the old ties no longer bind as tightly as before.", "tags": ["Wales", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland and Wales: Different drums | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-18T09:58:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's public sector procurement organisation has awarded a contract estimated to be worth up to \u00a330m for the supply of presentation equipment, including white boards and audio visual technology, to schools and councils.According to a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 16 April, the framework deal has been agreed by Scotland Excel and suppliers Matrix Display Systems, IDNS, SSUK, TCIB Installations and RM Education for up to three years.The companies will be expected to supply the equipment and provide maintenance and repair services.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Education"], "title": "Scotland Excel signs whiteboard deal"},{"date": "2011-06-13T10:14:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Sunday Herald in Glasgow dared yesterday to pose the question: does Scotland need the Daily Record?Some 90 editorial jobs are to be axed at the Record and its sister title, the Sunday Mail, by their publisher, Trinity Mirror (last week's news report here, my comment here).The Herald said the cuts - which amount to more than 37% of the journalistic staff - \"have thrown the spotlight on the health of the Scottish press\", and asked \"media experts if the cuts will harm the health of the nation itself.\"Philip Schlesinger (academic, Glasgow University) thought \"the deep cuts\" were \"another nail in the coffin of the Scottish indigenous press\" and called on the Scottish parliament \"to wake up... and discuss the crisis...\"He argued that \"indifference to decline is sheer irresponsibility. Plurality is seen as key for Scotland's broadcasting. It is no less a principle for the future of Scotland's press.\"Stewart Kirkpatrick (editor, Caledonian Mercury, an online newspaper): \"The brutal truth is that the newspaper model is broken. It has had its day... digital innovation is the only thing that will save Scottish journalism. \"It is the only thing that offers a realistic future to the hundreds of hacks who have lost their jobs... The net is a fantastic medium for journalists to set themselves up as independents...\" (See more of his argument here).Charles McGhee (ex-editor of The Herald and honorary professor, Glasgow Caledonian University): \"One could argue that the Record and Mail could have been less fawning and more constructively critical in their support of one political party, Labour, but that's not really the point at issue.If mass-market newspapers such as the Record and quality titles like this one and The Herald and The Scotsman (and let's not forget the doughty local press also caught in the current crisis) are no longer able to cover the business of government, from Holyrood to the town hall, then everyone eventually suffers.\"Iain Gray (Scottish Labour party leader): \"There may be a deluge of information with the internet, Twitter and 24-hour TV news cycles, but newspapers are still the best source for in-depth coverage, analysis and investigative journalism...The Daily Record has iconic status in Scottish life. It may not be the mighty paper it was, but then none is...We should all fear the decline of Scottish newspaper industry because of its vital role in a healthy democracy, holding government to account...As a Labour politician I am naturally concerned. In what has always been a politically partisan market \u2013 albeit skewed to the right \u2013 the Record and the Sunday Mail were the lone Labour voices.Such political imbalance was, I would argue, never healthy. It is hard to see it getting better. That's not good for newspapers and it is not good for Scotland.\"Alex Salmond (Scotland's first minister) believes the Record and Mail \"should be part of a vibrant and flourishing media sector in Scotland\". He added:\"While I may not always have seen eye to eye with the Daily Record's editorial stance over the years, I recognise the important contribution it and its sister title have made and continue to make to our national life...Scotland needs as much homegrown news, current affairs and sports coverage as possible \u2013 whether in print, online or on the airwaves \u2013 and a vital, healthy Daily Record and Sunday Mail should be part of that media mix.\"Brian McNair (academic, now professor of journalism at Queensland University):\"The decline in the Daily Record began a long time ago, before the credit crunch, and before the internet really began to challenge the print business model.The Sun's steady rise over a period of two decades, and the Record's decline, reflected decline in Labour's core demographic in the west of Scotland, and the fact that Murdoch's red top was, to be honest, a better product.The Record simply hasn't been up to the challenge, and these job losses are the latest evidence of that...Will the paper's predicament affect the health of Scottish political culture and debate? I doubt it.\"There was also a contribution in the Sunday Herald from me, coincidentally not too dissimilar from McNair's.", "tags": ["Media", "Daily Record", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Trinity Mirror", "Newspapers", "Media downturn", "Media business"], "title": "Does Scotland really need the Daily Record?"},{"date": "2011-05-25T09:56:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Welsh Government and Transport Scotland have issued a joint tender for the supply of an integrated roads information system (Iris) valued between \u00a317m and \u00a319m.An advertisement in the Official Journal of the European Union says the two organisations want the supplier to \"develop, implement, support and improve\" the information system. Under the contract, Iris will be expected to deliver annual road condition surveys for Wales and Scotland.Iris will be available online and include geographic information functions, the notice says. A comprehensive set of modules will include databases about accident management, cycling provision, drainage, lighting and pavement management, the landscape and environment and speed limits.There will also be databases for information and finance management, and the successful supplier will be expected to migrate data from existing systems as part of the contract.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Transport", "Devolved government", "Applications", "Guardian Government Computing"], "title": "Wales and Scotland seek roads ICT"},{"date": "2011-05-22T23:33:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish newspapers have a history of serving scoops on stories which have been the subject of gagging orders passed by English courts. This has been possible because of Scotland's distinct legal system.An injunction served in London under English law is not binding north of the border. Anyone wanting to prevent the whole of the British media from reporting on a story needs to get separate injunctions, or in Scottish law, an interdict, in all jurisdictions.In what was perhaps the most celebrated case, in 1988 the Scotsman \u2013 under editor Magnus Linklater \u2013 broke an injunction by publishing extracts from Inside Intelligence, the memoirs of former MI6 spy Anthony Cavendish. The govenment took the paper to court, and lost. In the House of Lords appeal, Lord Jauncey of Tullichettle recounted how Cavendish distributed some 257 copies of his book as \"Christmas cards\". One of these Christmas cards was sent to a Scottish MP who passed it to the editor of the Scotsman. Though the case against the paper was quashed, interim injunctions were granted against the Observer and the Sunday Times publishing material supplied by Cavendish \"in breach of his duty of confidence owed to the Crown.\" These injunctions were later restricted to selected \"blue-pencilled parts\" of the book, and, despite further proceedings by the Crown against the Scotsman and its editor, these were finally quashed.In the same decade, and with another spook's memoirs, as the government in Westminster was fighting to keep Peter Wright's Spycatcher out of print in the UK, the West Highland Free Press audaciously published extracts from the memoirs of the former MI5 agent in Gaelic.On New Year's Eve 1997, the then British home secretary Jack Straw's 17-year-old son was found in possession of drugs. Initially, an English court passed an order that prevented the press from revealing the boy's name. But after a Scottish newspaper disclosed the identity of Straw's son, the English injunction was lifted.", "tags": ["Privacy & the media", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Scotland", "UK news", "Superinjunctions", "Law", "Injunctions"], "title": "Injunction served in England \u2013 published in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-06T09:31:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "My proudest political moment remains, aged five, starting a chant against the Tories. Along with 50,000 Scots, my family \u2013 then living in Falkirk \u2013 had taken to the streets of Glasgow in the spring of 1990 to march against the poll tax. Brandishing a small flyer, I precociously yelled the slogan \"Kick the Tories out!\" Not that I really knew who the Tories were (other than that they were \"very bad people\") but the surrounding crowd certainly did \u2013 and they repeated the slogan with passion, rage and defiance.The Scottish people rejected Thatcherism at the polls time and time again, but suffered the imposition of the detested so-called \"community charge\" a year before the rest of the country. It triggered the most successful campaign of civil disobedience in British history. Millions \u2013 including my parents \u2013 refused to pay a tax that hit the poor far harder than the rich. Even when the British electorate unexpectedly failed to \"kick the Tories out\" in 1992, three out of four Scots voted to do exactly that.Recalling those passionate scenes in 1990, the plans of Murdo Fraser \u2013 the frontrunner for Scottish Tory leadership \u2013 to relaunch his party under a new name aren't surprising. For most, it is difficult to imagine the Conservatives being anything other than a toxic political brand in Scotland. This is, after all, the country of Red Clydeside; of Willie Gallacher, the former Communist MP for West Fife; and of the hard-left Scottish Socialist party, which until four years ago had six members in the Scottish parliament.But \u2013 despite the country's radical traditions \u2013 the strange death of Tory Scotland is more recent than many Scots would like to remember. Nearly half the British electorate voted Tory in 1955; but in Scotland, over half voted for the Unionist party \u2013 the then-sister party of the Conservatives. The Tories have the remarkable claim of being the only party to have ever won a majority of the Scottish vote. And yet at the last general election, the near-fringe party status of the Tories was confirmed when less than 17% of Scots voted for them.It is certainly true that the crisis of Scottish Toryism began before Margaret Thatcher demolished the post-war consensus. In 1965, the national party took direct control of the Scottish Unionists, who were rebranded the \"Scottish Conservative and Unionist party\". This was a big mistake in a country with such a proud national identity. And as was once the case in Liverpool, working-class Toryism was inextricably linked with Protestantism and anti-Catholic sentiments. Indeed, when Scottish Toryism triumphed in 1955, record numbers of Scots were flocking to the Church of Scotland. But as active Protestantism and the sectarian Orange Order waned in strength after the 1950s, the base of Scottish Toryism was chipped away.Even so, the death spiral of Scottish Toryism did not begin until Thatcher came to power in 1979. Her governments certainly found ways to affront Scottish national pride. North Sea oil was discovered a few years before the Conservatives came to power, but as Scotland was particularly battered by recession and de-industrialisation in the 1980s, there was growing resentment at the billions of pounds of revenue flowing straight to the Treasury in London \u2013 no less than \u00a3300bn in the past 30 years.But much of Scotland's passionate \u2013 and relatively recent \u2013 hatred of Toryism isn't as unique as some might think. It is shared with much of northern England, all of which repeatedly voted against the Tories but suffered from the worst excesses of their rule. Outside Tory England, it was like living under a foreign occupation: my Stockport primary school teachers dressed in black when John Major was returned to Downing Street in 1992.The destruction of British industry \u2013 particularly in the early 1980s \u2013 had much to do with this shared resentment. In 1991, the number of manufacturing jobs in Glasgow was just a third of the level two decades earlier. Two years after Thatcher's election victory, Glasgow was 208th down the list of local authorities for economic inactivity; a decade later, it had risen to 10th place.Northern industrial areas were similarly hammered in the two recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. The trauma of mass unemployment under Conservative governments has made anti-Toryism a kind of folk hatred passed from generation to generation in parts of Britain. No wonder, then, that the north-east of England rejected the Conservatives almost as decisively as Scotland at the last election: less than 24% voted Tory, while Labour \u2013 facing its second worst result since 1918 on a national level \u2013 won nearly 44%. The legacy of Thatcherism has left the Tories with a glass ceiling of support \u2013 which partly explains why the party failed to win the last election despite a woefully unpopular Labour government and the worst economic crisis since the 1930s.What is unique about Scottish anti-Toryism is that it has fused with a powerful sense of national pride. Because New Labour accepted many of the key pillars of Thatcherism, it was unable to capitalise on this antagonism effectively. The SNP, on the other hand, reinvented itself as a social democratic nationalist party that drew on a renewed, anti-Tory patriotism. With a hardline Thatcherite government back in office in London, the SNP can present itself as the protector of Scotland in a repeat of the 1980s.The bottom line is that Murdo Fraser can call the Scottish Tories what he likes. The Scottish electorate, however, are neither stupid nor forgetful. Toryism is dead as a mass political force in Scotland, and it is unlikely to ever come back.", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Margaret Thatcher"], "title": "Toryism is dead in Scotland | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-06T09:31:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "My proudest political moment remains, aged five, starting a chant against the Tories. Along with 50,000 Scots, my family \u2013 then living in Falkirk \u2013 had taken to the streets of Glasgow in the spring of 1990 to march against the poll tax. Brandishing a small flyer, I precociously yelled the slogan \"Kick the Tories out!\" Not that I really knew who the Tories were (other than that they were \"very bad people\") but the surrounding crowd certainly did \u2013 and they repeated the slogan with passion, rage and defiance.The Scottish people rejected Thatcherism at the polls time and time again, but suffered the imposition of the detested so-called \"community charge\" a year before the rest of the country. It triggered the most successful campaign of civil disobedience in British history. Millions \u2013 including my parents \u2013 refused to pay a tax that hit the poor far harder than the rich. Even when the British electorate unexpectedly failed to \"kick the Tories out\" in 1992, three out of four Scots voted to do exactly that.Recalling those passionate scenes in 1990, the plans of Murdo Fraser \u2013 the frontrunner for Scottish Tory leadership \u2013 to relaunch his party under a new name aren't surprising. For most, it is difficult to imagine the Conservatives being anything other than a toxic political brand in Scotland. This is, after all, the country of Red Clydeside; of Willie Gallacher, the former Communist MP for West Fife; and of the hard-left Scottish Socialist party, which until four years ago had six members in the Scottish parliament.But \u2013 despite the country's radical traditions \u2013 the strange death of Tory Scotland is more recent than many Scots would like to remember. Nearly half the British electorate voted Tory in 1955; but in Scotland, over half voted for the Unionist party \u2013 the then-sister party of the Conservatives. The Tories have the remarkable claim of being the only party to have ever won a majority of the Scottish vote. And yet at the last general election, the near-fringe party status of the Tories was confirmed when less than 17% of Scots voted for them.It is certainly true that the crisis of Scottish Toryism began before Margaret Thatcher demolished the post-war consensus. In 1965, the national party took direct control of the Scottish Unionists, who were rebranded the \"Scottish Conservative and Unionist party\". This was a big mistake in a country with such a proud national identity. And as was once the case in Liverpool, working-class Toryism was inextricably linked with Protestantism and anti-Catholic sentiments. Indeed, when Scottish Toryism triumphed in 1955, record numbers of Scots were flocking to the Church of Scotland. But as active Protestantism and the sectarian Orange Order waned in strength after the 1950s, the base of Scottish Toryism was chipped away.Even so, the death spiral of Scottish Toryism did not begin until Thatcher came to power in 1979. Her governments certainly found ways to affront Scottish national pride. North Sea oil was discovered a few years before the Conservatives came to power, but as Scotland was particularly battered by recession and de-industrialisation in the 1980s, there was growing resentment at the billions of pounds of revenue flowing straight to the Treasury in London \u2013 no less than \u00a3300bn in the past 30 years.But much of Scotland's passionate \u2013 and relatively recent \u2013 hatred of Toryism isn't as unique as some might think. It is shared with much of northern England, all of which repeatedly voted against the Tories but suffered from the worst excesses of their rule. Outside Tory England, it was like living under a foreign occupation: my Stockport primary school teachers dressed in black when John Major was returned to Downing Street in 1992.The destruction of British industry \u2013 particularly in the early 1980s \u2013 had much to do with this shared resentment. In 1991, the number of manufacturing jobs in Glasgow was just a third of the level two decades earlier. Two years after Thatcher's election victory, Glasgow was 208th down the list of local authorities for economic inactivity; a decade later, it had risen to 10th place.Northern industrial areas were similarly hammered in the two recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. The trauma of mass unemployment under Conservative governments has made anti-Toryism a kind of folk hatred passed from generation to generation in parts of Britain. No wonder, then, that the north-east of England rejected the Conservatives almost as decisively as Scotland at the last election: less than 24% voted Tory, while Labour \u2013 facing its second worst result since 1918 on a national level \u2013 won nearly 44%. The legacy of Thatcherism has left the Tories with a glass ceiling of support \u2013 which partly explains why the party failed to win the last election despite a woefully unpopular Labour government and the worst economic crisis since the 1930s.What is unique about Scottish anti-Toryism is that it has fused with a powerful sense of national pride. Because New Labour accepted many of the key pillars of Thatcherism, it was unable to capitalise on this antagonism effectively. The SNP, on the other hand, reinvented itself as a social democratic nationalist party that drew on a renewed, anti-Tory patriotism. With a hardline Thatcherite government back in office in London, the SNP can present itself as the protector of Scotland in a repeat of the 1980s.The bottom line is that Murdo Fraser can call the Scottish Tories what he likes. The Scottish electorate, however, are neither stupid nor forgetful. Toryism is dead as a mass political force in Scotland, and it is unlikely to ever come back.", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Margaret Thatcher"], "title": "Toryism is dead in Scotland | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2011-08-05T14:12:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has run new tests on e-counting technology in advance of next year's local government elections.Along with technology supplier Logica it held a dummy run to count 160,000 ballot papers in Perth today. This was the latest stage in testing the system, which uses an off-the-shelf software from Opt2Vote.Aileen Campbell, the Scottish government minister for local government planning, said: \"Compared to a manual count which would take at least two to three days, e-counting will be much faster and more transparent. This test is a crucial milestone in the project to make e-counting a reality in 2012.\"Logica is providing the programme management, training services, printing services and more than 40 project and count centre managers for the election under a contract awarded in October 2010.Scotland's previous experience of e-counting in the local government elections of 2007 came under criticism from several quarters, including the Scottish affairs committee of the House of Commons. It issued a report the following year that said the technology performed poorly and there was a lack of transparency in the process, and said it would not support the use of e-counting again until these problems were resolved.When the Scottish government awarded the contract to Logica last year, Jim Mather, the minister for enterprise, energy and tourism at the time, said steps had been taken to ensure there was no repeat of the problems of 2007.Martin Ewart, Logica's managing director Scotland, told GGC that it had dealt with the concerns over transparency largely by providing screens on which election scrutineers could see when a ballot is subject to adjudication, and management information on how far the process has advanced in each ward.\"We are in a really solid place,\" he said, adding that more pilots will be run before next year's poll, scaling to handle more votes and extending to disaster recovery.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland tests e-counting technology"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-06T09:31:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "My proudest political moment remains, aged five, starting a chant against the Tories. Along with 50,000 Scots, my family \u2013 then living in Falkirk \u2013 had taken to the streets of Glasgow in the spring of 1990 to march against the poll tax. Brandishing a small flyer, I precociously yelled the slogan \"Kick the Tories out!\" Not that I really knew who the Tories were (other than that they were \"very bad people\") but the surrounding crowd certainly did \u2013 and they repeated the slogan with passion, rage and defiance.The Scottish people rejected Thatcherism at the polls time and time again, but suffered the imposition of the detested so-called \"community charge\" a year before the rest of the country. It triggered the most successful campaign of civil disobedience in British history. Millions \u2013 including my parents \u2013 refused to pay a tax that hit the poor far harder than the rich. Even when the British electorate unexpectedly failed to \"kick the Tories out\" in 1992, three out of four Scots voted to do exactly that.Recalling those passionate scenes in 1990, the plans of Murdo Fraser \u2013 the frontrunner for Scottish Tory leadership \u2013 to relaunch his party under a new name aren't surprising. For most, it is difficult to imagine the Conservatives being anything other than a toxic political brand in Scotland. This is, after all, the country of Red Clydeside; of Willie Gallacher, the former Communist MP for West Fife; and of the hard-left Scottish Socialist party, which until four years ago had six members in the Scottish parliament.But \u2013 despite the country's radical traditions \u2013 the strange death of Tory Scotland is more recent than many Scots would like to remember. Nearly half the British electorate voted Tory in 1955; but in Scotland, over half voted for the Unionist party \u2013 the then-sister party of the Conservatives. The Tories have the remarkable claim of being the only party to have ever won a majority of the Scottish vote. And yet at the last general election, the near-fringe party status of the Tories was confirmed when less than 17% of Scots voted for them.It is certainly true that the crisis of Scottish Toryism began before Margaret Thatcher demolished the post-war consensus. In 1965, the national party took direct control of the Scottish Unionists, who were rebranded the \"Scottish Conservative and Unionist party\". This was a big mistake in a country with such a proud national identity. And as was once the case in Liverpool, working-class Toryism was inextricably linked with Protestantism and anti-Catholic sentiments. Indeed, when Scottish Toryism triumphed in 1955, record numbers of Scots were flocking to the Church of Scotland. But as active Protestantism and the sectarian Orange Order waned in strength after the 1950s, the base of Scottish Toryism was chipped away.Even so, the death spiral of Scottish Toryism did not begin until Thatcher came to power in 1979. Her governments certainly found ways to affront Scottish national pride. North Sea oil was discovered a few years before the Conservatives came to power, but as Scotland was particularly battered by recession and de-industrialisation in the 1980s, there was growing resentment at the billions of pounds of revenue flowing straight to the Treasury in London \u2013 no less than \u00a3300bn in the past 30 years.But much of Scotland's passionate \u2013 and relatively recent \u2013 hatred of Toryism isn't as unique as some might think. It is shared with much of northern England, all of which repeatedly voted against the Tories but suffered from the worst excesses of their rule. Outside Tory England, it was like living under a foreign occupation: my Stockport primary school teachers dressed in black when John Major was returned to Downing Street in 1992.The destruction of British industry \u2013 particularly in the early 1980s \u2013 had much to do with this shared resentment. In 1991, the number of manufacturing jobs in Glasgow was just a third of the level two decades earlier. Two years after Thatcher's election victory, Glasgow was 208th down the list of local authorities for economic inactivity; a decade later, it had risen to 10th place.Northern industrial areas were similarly hammered in the two recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. The trauma of mass unemployment under Conservative governments has made anti-Toryism a kind of folk hatred passed from generation to generation in parts of Britain. No wonder, then, that the north-east of England rejected the Conservatives almost as decisively as Scotland at the last election: less than 24% voted Tory, while Labour \u2013 facing its second worst result since 1918 on a national level \u2013 won nearly 44%. The legacy of Thatcherism has left the Tories with a glass ceiling of support \u2013 which partly explains why the party failed to win the last election despite a woefully unpopular Labour government and the worst economic crisis since the 1930s.What is unique about Scottish anti-Toryism is that it has fused with a powerful sense of national pride. Because New Labour accepted many of the key pillars of Thatcherism, it was unable to capitalise on this antagonism effectively. The SNP, on the other hand, reinvented itself as a social democratic nationalist party that drew on a renewed, anti-Tory patriotism. With a hardline Thatcherite government back in office in London, the SNP can present itself as the protector of Scotland in a repeat of the 1980s.The bottom line is that Murdo Fraser can call the Scottish Tories what he likes. The Scottish electorate, however, are neither stupid nor forgetful. Toryism is dead as a mass political force in Scotland, and it is unlikely to ever come back.", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Margaret Thatcher"], "title": "Toryism is dead in Scotland | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2011-08-05T14:12:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has run new tests on e-counting technology in advance of next year's local government elections.Along with technology supplier Logica it held a dummy run to count 160,000 ballot papers in Perth today. This was the latest stage in testing the system, which uses an off-the-shelf software from Opt2Vote.Aileen Campbell, the Scottish government minister for local government planning, said: \"Compared to a manual count which would take at least two to three days, e-counting will be much faster and more transparent. This test is a crucial milestone in the project to make e-counting a reality in 2012.\"Logica is providing the programme management, training services, printing services and more than 40 project and count centre managers for the election under a contract awarded in October 2010.Scotland's previous experience of e-counting in the local government elections of 2007 came under criticism from several quarters, including the Scottish affairs committee of the House of Commons. It issued a report the following year that said the technology performed poorly and there was a lack of transparency in the process, and said it would not support the use of e-counting again until these problems were resolved.When the Scottish government awarded the contract to Logica last year, Jim Mather, the minister for enterprise, energy and tourism at the time, said steps had been taken to ensure there was no repeat of the problems of 2007.Martin Ewart, Logica's managing director Scotland, told GGC that it had dealt with the concerns over transparency largely by providing screens on which election scrutineers could see when a ballot is subject to adjudication, and management information on how far the process has advanced in each ward.\"We are in a really solid place,\" he said, adding that more pilots will be run before next year's poll, scaling to handle more votes and extending to disaster recovery.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland tests e-counting technology"},{"date": "2011-09-26T10:14:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has called on the UK government to support the creation of a .scot internet domain for Scotland.Alex Neil, cabinet secretary for infrastructure and capital investment has written to counterpart Ed Vaizey, minister for culture, communications and creative industries, asking him to back the not-for-profit company Dot Scot Registry (DSR) which has been set up specifically to ensure a domain is established.The move has been timed in advance of a three month period, beginning on 12 January 2012, when the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) will open the application window for new top level domains.Neil said: \"The Scottish Government is behind this company (DSR) because we believe there is strong demand for a dotscot domain and that it should be run as a public resource on a not-for-profit basis that will quickly become self-financing.\"I am sure the UK government with its responsibility for internet governance will want to support us. Across the board support would undoubtedly strengthen our hand and build momentum behind the bid.\"Dotscot will be a wonderful asset for establishing a distinctive online identity for many organisations and people who have been described as the worldwide family of Scots and want to demonstrate that identity online.\"A spokesperson for the Scottish Government told GGC that it is not yet thinking seriously about whether to move public sector websites to a new domain, but that it could consider the idea in the future.At time of publication the Department for Culture, Media and Sport had not given an indication on whether it is likely to back the application.A similar campaign has been launched to provide a .cymru domain for Wales. The dotCYM campaign group said it would play a role in validating Welsh culture and language.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland calls for Whitehall support on .scot"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-06T09:31:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "My proudest political moment remains, aged five, starting a chant against the Tories. Along with 50,000 Scots, my family \u2013 then living in Falkirk \u2013 had taken to the streets of Glasgow in the spring of 1990 to march against the poll tax. Brandishing a small flyer, I precociously yelled the slogan \"Kick the Tories out!\" Not that I really knew who the Tories were (other than that they were \"very bad people\") but the surrounding crowd certainly did \u2013 and they repeated the slogan with passion, rage and defiance.The Scottish people rejected Thatcherism at the polls time and time again, but suffered the imposition of the detested so-called \"community charge\" a year before the rest of the country. It triggered the most successful campaign of civil disobedience in British history. Millions \u2013 including my parents \u2013 refused to pay a tax that hit the poor far harder than the rich. Even when the British electorate unexpectedly failed to \"kick the Tories out\" in 1992, three out of four Scots voted to do exactly that.Recalling those passionate scenes in 1990, the plans of Murdo Fraser \u2013 the frontrunner for Scottish Tory leadership \u2013 to relaunch his party under a new name aren't surprising. For most, it is difficult to imagine the Conservatives being anything other than a toxic political brand in Scotland. This is, after all, the country of Red Clydeside; of Willie Gallacher, the former Communist MP for West Fife; and of the hard-left Scottish Socialist party, which until four years ago had six members in the Scottish parliament.But \u2013 despite the country's radical traditions \u2013 the strange death of Tory Scotland is more recent than many Scots would like to remember. Nearly half the British electorate voted Tory in 1955; but in Scotland, over half voted for the Unionist party \u2013 the then-sister party of the Conservatives. The Tories have the remarkable claim of being the only party to have ever won a majority of the Scottish vote. And yet at the last general election, the near-fringe party status of the Tories was confirmed when less than 17% of Scots voted for them.It is certainly true that the crisis of Scottish Toryism began before Margaret Thatcher demolished the post-war consensus. In 1965, the national party took direct control of the Scottish Unionists, who were rebranded the \"Scottish Conservative and Unionist party\". This was a big mistake in a country with such a proud national identity. And as was once the case in Liverpool, working-class Toryism was inextricably linked with Protestantism and anti-Catholic sentiments. Indeed, when Scottish Toryism triumphed in 1955, record numbers of Scots were flocking to the Church of Scotland. But as active Protestantism and the sectarian Orange Order waned in strength after the 1950s, the base of Scottish Toryism was chipped away.Even so, the death spiral of Scottish Toryism did not begin until Thatcher came to power in 1979. Her governments certainly found ways to affront Scottish national pride. North Sea oil was discovered a few years before the Conservatives came to power, but as Scotland was particularly battered by recession and de-industrialisation in the 1980s, there was growing resentment at the billions of pounds of revenue flowing straight to the Treasury in London \u2013 no less than \u00a3300bn in the past 30 years.But much of Scotland's passionate \u2013 and relatively recent \u2013 hatred of Toryism isn't as unique as some might think. It is shared with much of northern England, all of which repeatedly voted against the Tories but suffered from the worst excesses of their rule. Outside Tory England, it was like living under a foreign occupation: my Stockport primary school teachers dressed in black when John Major was returned to Downing Street in 1992.The destruction of British industry \u2013 particularly in the early 1980s \u2013 had much to do with this shared resentment. In 1991, the number of manufacturing jobs in Glasgow was just a third of the level two decades earlier. Two years after Thatcher's election victory, Glasgow was 208th down the list of local authorities for economic inactivity; a decade later, it had risen to 10th place.Northern industrial areas were similarly hammered in the two recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. The trauma of mass unemployment under Conservative governments has made anti-Toryism a kind of folk hatred passed from generation to generation in parts of Britain. No wonder, then, that the north-east of England rejected the Conservatives almost as decisively as Scotland at the last election: less than 24% voted Tory, while Labour \u2013 facing its second worst result since 1918 on a national level \u2013 won nearly 44%. The legacy of Thatcherism has left the Tories with a glass ceiling of support \u2013 which partly explains why the party failed to win the last election despite a woefully unpopular Labour government and the worst economic crisis since the 1930s.What is unique about Scottish anti-Toryism is that it has fused with a powerful sense of national pride. Because New Labour accepted many of the key pillars of Thatcherism, it was unable to capitalise on this antagonism effectively. The SNP, on the other hand, reinvented itself as a social democratic nationalist party that drew on a renewed, anti-Tory patriotism. With a hardline Thatcherite government back in office in London, the SNP can present itself as the protector of Scotland in a repeat of the 1980s.The bottom line is that Murdo Fraser can call the Scottish Tories what he likes. The Scottish electorate, however, are neither stupid nor forgetful. Toryism is dead as a mass political force in Scotland, and it is unlikely to ever come back.", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Margaret Thatcher"], "title": "Toryism is dead in Scotland | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2011-08-05T14:12:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has run new tests on e-counting technology in advance of next year's local government elections.Along with technology supplier Logica it held a dummy run to count 160,000 ballot papers in Perth today. This was the latest stage in testing the system, which uses an off-the-shelf software from Opt2Vote.Aileen Campbell, the Scottish government minister for local government planning, said: \"Compared to a manual count which would take at least two to three days, e-counting will be much faster and more transparent. This test is a crucial milestone in the project to make e-counting a reality in 2012.\"Logica is providing the programme management, training services, printing services and more than 40 project and count centre managers for the election under a contract awarded in October 2010.Scotland's previous experience of e-counting in the local government elections of 2007 came under criticism from several quarters, including the Scottish affairs committee of the House of Commons. It issued a report the following year that said the technology performed poorly and there was a lack of transparency in the process, and said it would not support the use of e-counting again until these problems were resolved.When the Scottish government awarded the contract to Logica last year, Jim Mather, the minister for enterprise, energy and tourism at the time, said steps had been taken to ensure there was no repeat of the problems of 2007.Martin Ewart, Logica's managing director Scotland, told GGC that it had dealt with the concerns over transparency largely by providing screens on which election scrutineers could see when a ballot is subject to adjudication, and management information on how far the process has advanced in each ward.\"We are in a really solid place,\" he said, adding that more pilots will be run before next year's poll, scaling to handle more votes and extending to disaster recovery.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland tests e-counting technology"},{"date": "2011-09-26T10:14:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has called on the UK government to support the creation of a .scot internet domain for Scotland.Alex Neil, cabinet secretary for infrastructure and capital investment has written to counterpart Ed Vaizey, minister for culture, communications and creative industries, asking him to back the not-for-profit company Dot Scot Registry (DSR) which has been set up specifically to ensure a domain is established.The move has been timed in advance of a three month period, beginning on 12 January 2012, when the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) will open the application window for new top level domains.Neil said: \"The Scottish Government is behind this company (DSR) because we believe there is strong demand for a dotscot domain and that it should be run as a public resource on a not-for-profit basis that will quickly become self-financing.\"I am sure the UK government with its responsibility for internet governance will want to support us. Across the board support would undoubtedly strengthen our hand and build momentum behind the bid.\"Dotscot will be a wonderful asset for establishing a distinctive online identity for many organisations and people who have been described as the worldwide family of Scots and want to demonstrate that identity online.\"A spokesperson for the Scottish Government told GGC that it is not yet thinking seriously about whether to move public sector websites to a new domain, but that it could consider the idea in the future.At time of publication the Department for Culture, Media and Sport had not given an indication on whether it is likely to back the application.A similar campaign has been launched to provide a .cymru domain for Wales. The dotCYM campaign group said it would play a role in validating Welsh culture and language.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland calls for Whitehall support on .scot"},{"date": "2011-09-23T13:40:14Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland could teach the rest of the UK a thing or two when it comes to a streamlined model of government, says Sir John Elvidge, former permanent secretary to the Scottish government.Elvidge sets out 12 lessons that could be learnt from Scotland's first 12 years of devolved government in a paper launched on Friday.He said that radical changes he made under the minority SNP party in 2007 \u2013 which involved abolishing departments, redefining top civil service roles and aligning the entire Scottish public sector around a single framework of national purpose that would be tracked and measured \u2013 were a world first.\"In partnership between civil service and political leadership, a radical Scottish model of government has developed since 2007, building on the learning from the earlier period of devolution. It is based on the effort to have government function as a single organisation, working towards a single defined government purpose based on outcomes, and establishing a partnership based on that purpose with the rest of the public sector which is capable of being joined by other parts of civil society.\"It places strategic leadership and the facilitation of co-operation between organisations and sections of society at the heart of the role of central government, rather than a managerialist view of the relationship of central government to others. It is an explicit rejection of departmentalism as a basis for effective government and involves the abolition of a departmental structure within the Scottish government.\"Elvidge writes in his paper, which was launched at the Institute for Government's inside devolution conference, that the shake-up was to pull apart entrenched silos that had become a feature of a coalition government.\"One of the consequences of coalition was to strengthen the desire of individual ministers to maximise their own degree of autonomy and, consequently, that of their department.\" But this did not exploit \"the potential benefits of being able to address the wide range of responsibilities within a relatively compact central government\". By unifying the system, he said, the Scottish government was able to manage spending reductions in 2009 and 2010.Elvidge's paper comes a day after the British civil service was criticised for its \"institutional inertia, complacency and a lack of specialist expertise\", which was keeping its head down over reform.He said the Scottish civil service had played \"a central role\" in effecting and establishing change. \"As well as providing essential continuity of understanding about the processes of government, it has displayed agility and energy in assisting the adaptation of that understanding to fresh challenges,\" he said.Elvidge, once the most senior civil servant in Scotland, praised the Scottish public leadership forum, which was set up in 2006 and brings together all Scottish public sector leaders, for aiding the new style of government.While he is keen to emphasise that the paper makes no comment on Scottish politics, \"my central proposition is that we are making less use than we could and should within the UK of the opportunities for transferable learning from the experience of devolution,\" he said.Lord Adonis, director of the Institute for Government, said: \"Whitehall and Westminster have not woken up to the big changes north of the border. The new Scottish model offers a real challenge to the departmental way of doing business. IfG has already looked at ways of better joining up within current structures \u2013 Sir John's paper shows that, with political consent, a different way is possible\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Leadership and management", "Efficiency and risk"], "title": "Lessons from Scotland on streamlining government"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-06T09:31:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "My proudest political moment remains, aged five, starting a chant against the Tories. Along with 50,000 Scots, my family \u2013 then living in Falkirk \u2013 had taken to the streets of Glasgow in the spring of 1990 to march against the poll tax. Brandishing a small flyer, I precociously yelled the slogan \"Kick the Tories out!\" Not that I really knew who the Tories were (other than that they were \"very bad people\") but the surrounding crowd certainly did \u2013 and they repeated the slogan with passion, rage and defiance.The Scottish people rejected Thatcherism at the polls time and time again, but suffered the imposition of the detested so-called \"community charge\" a year before the rest of the country. It triggered the most successful campaign of civil disobedience in British history. Millions \u2013 including my parents \u2013 refused to pay a tax that hit the poor far harder than the rich. Even when the British electorate unexpectedly failed to \"kick the Tories out\" in 1992, three out of four Scots voted to do exactly that.Recalling those passionate scenes in 1990, the plans of Murdo Fraser \u2013 the frontrunner for Scottish Tory leadership \u2013 to relaunch his party under a new name aren't surprising. For most, it is difficult to imagine the Conservatives being anything other than a toxic political brand in Scotland. This is, after all, the country of Red Clydeside; of Willie Gallacher, the former Communist MP for West Fife; and of the hard-left Scottish Socialist party, which until four years ago had six members in the Scottish parliament.But \u2013 despite the country's radical traditions \u2013 the strange death of Tory Scotland is more recent than many Scots would like to remember. Nearly half the British electorate voted Tory in 1955; but in Scotland, over half voted for the Unionist party \u2013 the then-sister party of the Conservatives. The Tories have the remarkable claim of being the only party to have ever won a majority of the Scottish vote. And yet at the last general election, the near-fringe party status of the Tories was confirmed when less than 17% of Scots voted for them.It is certainly true that the crisis of Scottish Toryism began before Margaret Thatcher demolished the post-war consensus. In 1965, the national party took direct control of the Scottish Unionists, who were rebranded the \"Scottish Conservative and Unionist party\". This was a big mistake in a country with such a proud national identity. And as was once the case in Liverpool, working-class Toryism was inextricably linked with Protestantism and anti-Catholic sentiments. Indeed, when Scottish Toryism triumphed in 1955, record numbers of Scots were flocking to the Church of Scotland. But as active Protestantism and the sectarian Orange Order waned in strength after the 1950s, the base of Scottish Toryism was chipped away.Even so, the death spiral of Scottish Toryism did not begin until Thatcher came to power in 1979. Her governments certainly found ways to affront Scottish national pride. North Sea oil was discovered a few years before the Conservatives came to power, but as Scotland was particularly battered by recession and de-industrialisation in the 1980s, there was growing resentment at the billions of pounds of revenue flowing straight to the Treasury in London \u2013 no less than \u00a3300bn in the past 30 years.But much of Scotland's passionate \u2013 and relatively recent \u2013 hatred of Toryism isn't as unique as some might think. It is shared with much of northern England, all of which repeatedly voted against the Tories but suffered from the worst excesses of their rule. Outside Tory England, it was like living under a foreign occupation: my Stockport primary school teachers dressed in black when John Major was returned to Downing Street in 1992.The destruction of British industry \u2013 particularly in the early 1980s \u2013 had much to do with this shared resentment. In 1991, the number of manufacturing jobs in Glasgow was just a third of the level two decades earlier. Two years after Thatcher's election victory, Glasgow was 208th down the list of local authorities for economic inactivity; a decade later, it had risen to 10th place.Northern industrial areas were similarly hammered in the two recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. The trauma of mass unemployment under Conservative governments has made anti-Toryism a kind of folk hatred passed from generation to generation in parts of Britain. No wonder, then, that the north-east of England rejected the Conservatives almost as decisively as Scotland at the last election: less than 24% voted Tory, while Labour \u2013 facing its second worst result since 1918 on a national level \u2013 won nearly 44%. The legacy of Thatcherism has left the Tories with a glass ceiling of support \u2013 which partly explains why the party failed to win the last election despite a woefully unpopular Labour government and the worst economic crisis since the 1930s.What is unique about Scottish anti-Toryism is that it has fused with a powerful sense of national pride. Because New Labour accepted many of the key pillars of Thatcherism, it was unable to capitalise on this antagonism effectively. The SNP, on the other hand, reinvented itself as a social democratic nationalist party that drew on a renewed, anti-Tory patriotism. With a hardline Thatcherite government back in office in London, the SNP can present itself as the protector of Scotland in a repeat of the 1980s.The bottom line is that Murdo Fraser can call the Scottish Tories what he likes. The Scottish electorate, however, are neither stupid nor forgetful. Toryism is dead as a mass political force in Scotland, and it is unlikely to ever come back.", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Margaret Thatcher"], "title": "Toryism is dead in Scotland | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2011-08-05T14:12:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has run new tests on e-counting technology in advance of next year's local government elections.Along with technology supplier Logica it held a dummy run to count 160,000 ballot papers in Perth today. This was the latest stage in testing the system, which uses an off-the-shelf software from Opt2Vote.Aileen Campbell, the Scottish government minister for local government planning, said: \"Compared to a manual count which would take at least two to three days, e-counting will be much faster and more transparent. This test is a crucial milestone in the project to make e-counting a reality in 2012.\"Logica is providing the programme management, training services, printing services and more than 40 project and count centre managers for the election under a contract awarded in October 2010.Scotland's previous experience of e-counting in the local government elections of 2007 came under criticism from several quarters, including the Scottish affairs committee of the House of Commons. It issued a report the following year that said the technology performed poorly and there was a lack of transparency in the process, and said it would not support the use of e-counting again until these problems were resolved.When the Scottish government awarded the contract to Logica last year, Jim Mather, the minister for enterprise, energy and tourism at the time, said steps had been taken to ensure there was no repeat of the problems of 2007.Martin Ewart, Logica's managing director Scotland, told GGC that it had dealt with the concerns over transparency largely by providing screens on which election scrutineers could see when a ballot is subject to adjudication, and management information on how far the process has advanced in each ward.\"We are in a really solid place,\" he said, adding that more pilots will be run before next year's poll, scaling to handle more votes and extending to disaster recovery.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland tests e-counting technology"},{"date": "2011-09-26T10:14:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has called on the UK government to support the creation of a .scot internet domain for Scotland.Alex Neil, cabinet secretary for infrastructure and capital investment has written to counterpart Ed Vaizey, minister for culture, communications and creative industries, asking him to back the not-for-profit company Dot Scot Registry (DSR) which has been set up specifically to ensure a domain is established.The move has been timed in advance of a three month period, beginning on 12 January 2012, when the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) will open the application window for new top level domains.Neil said: \"The Scottish Government is behind this company (DSR) because we believe there is strong demand for a dotscot domain and that it should be run as a public resource on a not-for-profit basis that will quickly become self-financing.\"I am sure the UK government with its responsibility for internet governance will want to support us. Across the board support would undoubtedly strengthen our hand and build momentum behind the bid.\"Dotscot will be a wonderful asset for establishing a distinctive online identity for many organisations and people who have been described as the worldwide family of Scots and want to demonstrate that identity online.\"A spokesperson for the Scottish Government told GGC that it is not yet thinking seriously about whether to move public sector websites to a new domain, but that it could consider the idea in the future.At time of publication the Department for Culture, Media and Sport had not given an indication on whether it is likely to back the application.A similar campaign has been launched to provide a .cymru domain for Wales. The dotCYM campaign group said it would play a role in validating Welsh culture and language.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland calls for Whitehall support on .scot"},{"date": "2011-09-23T13:40:14Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland could teach the rest of the UK a thing or two when it comes to a streamlined model of government, says Sir John Elvidge, former permanent secretary to the Scottish government.Elvidge sets out 12 lessons that could be learnt from Scotland's first 12 years of devolved government in a paper launched on Friday.He said that radical changes he made under the minority SNP party in 2007 \u2013 which involved abolishing departments, redefining top civil service roles and aligning the entire Scottish public sector around a single framework of national purpose that would be tracked and measured \u2013 were a world first.\"In partnership between civil service and political leadership, a radical Scottish model of government has developed since 2007, building on the learning from the earlier period of devolution. It is based on the effort to have government function as a single organisation, working towards a single defined government purpose based on outcomes, and establishing a partnership based on that purpose with the rest of the public sector which is capable of being joined by other parts of civil society.\"It places strategic leadership and the facilitation of co-operation between organisations and sections of society at the heart of the role of central government, rather than a managerialist view of the relationship of central government to others. It is an explicit rejection of departmentalism as a basis for effective government and involves the abolition of a departmental structure within the Scottish government.\"Elvidge writes in his paper, which was launched at the Institute for Government's inside devolution conference, that the shake-up was to pull apart entrenched silos that had become a feature of a coalition government.\"One of the consequences of coalition was to strengthen the desire of individual ministers to maximise their own degree of autonomy and, consequently, that of their department.\" But this did not exploit \"the potential benefits of being able to address the wide range of responsibilities within a relatively compact central government\". By unifying the system, he said, the Scottish government was able to manage spending reductions in 2009 and 2010.Elvidge's paper comes a day after the British civil service was criticised for its \"institutional inertia, complacency and a lack of specialist expertise\", which was keeping its head down over reform.He said the Scottish civil service had played \"a central role\" in effecting and establishing change. \"As well as providing essential continuity of understanding about the processes of government, it has displayed agility and energy in assisting the adaptation of that understanding to fresh challenges,\" he said.Elvidge, once the most senior civil servant in Scotland, praised the Scottish public leadership forum, which was set up in 2006 and brings together all Scottish public sector leaders, for aiding the new style of government.While he is keen to emphasise that the paper makes no comment on Scottish politics, \"my central proposition is that we are making less use than we could and should within the UK of the opportunities for transferable learning from the experience of devolution,\" he said.Lord Adonis, director of the Institute for Government, said: \"Whitehall and Westminster have not woken up to the big changes north of the border. The new Scottish model offers a real challenge to the departmental way of doing business. IfG has already looked at ways of better joining up within current structures \u2013 Sir John's paper shows that, with political consent, a different way is possible\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Leadership and management", "Efficiency and risk"], "title": "Lessons from Scotland on streamlining government"},{"date": "2011-09-23T13:38:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has signed a \u00a318.5m, four year contract with Amor Group to run eProcurement Scotland, the agency which provides online purchasing services for the public sector.Alex Neil, the Scottish Government's cabinet secretary for infrastructure and capital investment, said: \"The award of this contract builds upon Scotland's successes in the deployment and management of public sector e-procurement technologies.\"It also showcases Scotland's supplier capability to host and manage what is regarded as one of the leading government e-commerce services.\"Amor Group said it will deliver eProcurement Scotland services from a range of locations. The main hosting centre will be at the Scottish Government's Saughton House in Edinburgh, while user support services will be provided from the company's desk in Aberdeen.Support for the integration and transition process will come from Amor Group's headquarters near Glasgow.In a statement the company said the contract will provide carbon savings by using a virtual hosting environment, which will reduce the infrastructure from more than 73 servers to 19.A spokesman for the Scottish Government said the contract could be extended by three years taking the value up to \u00a336m.eProcurement Scotland was set up in 2002 as a fully hosted and managed e-procurement service for Scottish central and local government, education and healthcare. Its services include e-sourcing, which covers electronic tendering and auctions, and a transactional purchase-to-pay system.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Procurement", "Efficiency", "Devolved government", "E-commerce"], "title": "\u00a318.5m deal will deliver eProcurement Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-30T23:11:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Inkspot and Silverleaf76/78 South Street, Bo'ness EH51 9HA, 01506 204450This bright and cheerful shop really feels as if it's a part of its community. As well as a good 4,000-strong selection of bestselling and general titles, it stocks locally handmade gifts and cards, and acts as a ticket outlet for events in the district. The\u00a0children's section has shelves arranged at different heights for each age group and the informal atmosphere helps put young browsers at ease. There's also a small stationery section, and plenty of books on the history of the town and area.Aye-Aye Books350 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3JD, 0141-352 4900Named after the world's largest nocturnal primate, this quirky bookshop in the Centre for Contemporary Arts offers fiction, poetry, cultural theory, radical writing, artists' books, magazines and exhibition catalogues. There are books by and about Scottish artists, as well as music and world cinema DVDs. It's only open from Wednesday to Saturday, but also sells its eclectic wares online.Hyndland Bookshop143 Hyndland Road, Hyndland, Glasgow G12 9JA, 0141-334 5522This small, stylish shop sits perfectly among the chic boutiques and coffee shops of well-heeled Hyndland. It offers a fine selection of fiction, poetry and travel writing, and some surprising choices alongside bestsellers. An extensive selection of films contains the best of arthouse, modern classic and world cinema, and prices are reasonable. There's also a very cute black Labrador to add to that aspirational West End vibe.Milngavie Bookshop37 Douglas Street, Milngavie, Glasgow, G62 6PE, 0141-956 4752The family-run Milngavie Bookshop has been a local institution for more than 30 years. The stock is broad, with a special emphasis on children's books and local interest titles. It\u00a0also sells cards, maps and stationery, and has a popular cafe. It's heavily involved with the annual Milngavie book and arts festival, and has a lively programme of events involving local authors.Achins BookshopInverKirkaig, Lochinver, Lairg, Sutherland, Highlands IV27 4LR, 01571 844262Possibly the most remote bookshop in mainland Britain, Achins sits in gobsmacking scenery between Suilven mountain and the sea. It focuses on Scotland, particularly the local area, and has a good selection of hill walking, fishing, and history titles. There's a cafe, too \u2013 which, unlike the shop, is only open between Easter and October. Given that glorious setting, you might want to call first to check it's open.Ceilidh Place Bookshop 14 West Argyle Street, Ullapool IV26 2TY, 01854 613773At the end of the A835, there's a bookshop with rooms for you to sleep in. The Ceilidh Place is an extraordinary complex including a gallery, bookshop, hotel, bar, cafe and performance space, set up by the actor Robert Urquhart in 1970 and now run by his widow Jean, a member of the Scottish parliament. The bookshop, which began as a shelf of titles in the lobby, is open year-round for works on modern Scottish literature, art, outdoor activities (especially kayaking and mountaineering), ecology, cookery and natural history. There's a strong poetry section, books in Gaelic, children's books and titles from small Scottish publishers such as Sandstone Press and Big Sky Press. This is a magical place: overnight guests can buy books from breakfast time to when the bar finally closes.Stromness Books and Prints1 Graham Place, Stromness, Orkney KW16 3BY, 01856\u00a0850565In 1976, Tam McPhail took a job here to tide him over. Now, 35 years later, he's the owner of an idiosyncratic bookshop that's the antithesis of the slick bookselling chains on the high street. Recently, McPhail changed his opening time to 10.30am so he could walk to work, he doesn't organise events (\"The book is the event,\" he says) and despite the name, he doesn't sell prints. His stock, in one small room, includes bestsellers but the focus is on interesting books for interesting people. The shop, which has been a tea room and a bakery in previous incarnations, is right on the road. There is no pavement, so McPhail dubs it \"Scotland's only drive-in bookshop\". Some regulars actually do pull up and buy at the wheel.Analogue Books39 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh, Midlothian EH1 2QB, 0131-220 0601Run by husband and wife Russell and Julie Ferguson, this diminutive shop concentrates on art and design books, displayed like objects in a gallery rather than overwhelming rows of spines. It's a refreshing, friendly mix of artists' books from small presses and more mainstream titles, selected for their beauty. The shop also sells prints by local artists alongside cutting-edge titles in illustration, graphic design, fine art, fashion, and architecture, plus cards, magazines, journals and stationery. It used to be an antique shop, owned by a woman called Joy. Rather sweetly, they've left her name over the door as a sign of what lies within.Edinburgh Bookshop 219 Bruntsfield Place, Edinburgh EH10 4DH, 0131-447 1917This is the kind of bookshop we'd all like to have in our neighbourhood. It's a classy, beautiful space \u2013 all high ceilings, glass tables and original art on the walls \u2013 housing around 4,000 books, with a strong selection of Scottish titles and an exceptional children's section, which has a bright mural. The emphasis is on unusual, intelligent and topical selections of new titles to give the stock a clever, eclectic mix. If Radio 4 was a bookshop, it would be like this. It's a buzzy place, with regular author events, often featuring local writers such as Ian Rankin or Alexander McCall Smith, book groups for adults and children, and book swap evenings.Fruitmarket Gallery Bookshop 45 Market Street, Edinburgh EH1 1DF, 0131-225 2383This is one of Scotland's best contemporary culture and art bookshops, with an unrivalled collection of titles on art, design, photography, fashion, and architecture from small, independent presses, as well as mainstream publishers. It stocks limited edition artists' books, magazines and journals, alongside contemporary stationery and gifts. There's also a popular children's section of illustration-led books. The stock is shaped by what's on in the gallery, and all profits feed back into the creative programme.Linlithgow Bookshop 48 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7AE, 01506\u00a0845768There's an impressively broad range of titles in this general bookshop, housed in an atmospheric 16th-century building in the historic town where Mary Queen of Scots was born. Given this connection, it's not surprising that Scottish-interest and local history titles feature prominently. Since moving most of its children's stock into a dedicated shop further up the high street (see\u00a0Little Owls, below), this shop has expanded its stationery and gifts section, with an emphasis on Scottish items. Knowledgeable staff keep locals coming back.Little Owls103 High Street, Linlithgow, West Lothian EH49 7EQ, 01506 844645A gem of a children's bookshop, hugely popular with locals. The premises are divided into three areas for Little Owls (pre-school and under-fives), Bright Owls (primary school age) and Night Owls (11-18), with a great selection of books, toys and games in each. There's a busy programme of events, from graphic novel workshops for teenagers to a pre-nursery storytelling and singing group. The shop has a gift for engaging young readers, and making choosing books fun at any age.Transreal Fiction46 Candlemaker Row, Edinburgh EH1 2QE, 0131-226 6266A fixture on the Edinburgh science fiction and fantasy scene for the past 14 years, Transreal recently moved into new premises. The understated white-painted shopfront on Candlemaker Row belies the bold, enthralling worlds that lie behind it. The shop takes its name from the term that Rudy Rucker coined to describe his brand of speculative fiction, and stocks several thousand titles from British and foreign authors. Transreal often stages exhibitions during the Edinburgh festival. Previous shows have seen an invasion of knitted tentacles and photographic portraits of writers.Valvona & Crolla19 Elm Row, Edinburgh EH7 4AA, 0131-556 6066Founded in 1934, Valvona & Crolla is Scotland's oldest delicatessen and a must-visit for fans of Italian food. But as well as its edible delights, the shop carries around 100 titles on cooking, food, Italy and Scotland. It's a bespoke range of\u00a0titles reflecting the company ethos: distinctiveness and quality, plus a strong sense of place. Don't go looking for bestsellers you could find elsewhere: this is owner Mary Contini's personal selection of books that delight her. And as you'll know if you already shop in the deli, she has pretty impeccable taste.Word Power 43-45 West Nicolson Street, Edinburgh EH8 9DB, 0131-662 9112The novelist Ali Smith once described Word Power as a \"giant-defier\" and that's very much what this radical bookshop sets out to be, taking on contemporary culture and politics from a leftist perspective, while also offering a refreshing alternative to the large bookshop chains. It was opened in 1994 by James Kelman, a Booker prize winner, and takes a distinctive approach that places titles from small or independent presses and radical writing from individuals side by side with those from more well-known names, such as Michael Moore and Naomi Klein. Its focus on politics, feminism, the environment and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender issues continues to promote voices from beyond the mainstream of publishing.Bookshop16 Allan Street, Blairgowrie, Perthshire PH10 6AD, 01250 876004The Bookshop's owner, Louise Gow, used to be a librarian and has always had a passion for art. You can see both of these threads united in her flamboyant seasonal window displays, which are often the talk of the town. The mood inside is informal and fun \u2013 the antithesis of a soulless online book retailer, and a reflection of Gow's colourful personality. Her shop carries all the usual subject areas, and has a popular children's section, as well as a small secondhand zone. Gow's fox terrier puppy, Molly, can often be found in the shop, when not posting her choice for book of the week on the store's Facebook page. The shop also sells cards and gift-wrap, and music from the Naxos label.J & G Innes 107 South Street, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9QW, 01334 472174A family business for four generations, this stationer, bookseller and gift shop occupies one of the more extraordinary buildings in the heart of St Andrews. It was the first home to the St Andrews Citizen newspaper in the 1890s, and features oak-lined walls, stained glass windows and a statue of St Andrew on the side of the building. In this impressive setting, the books section highlights golf, coffee table books, local interest, railway books, and children's fiction in particular. There are lots of book-related gifts and classy stationery, plus a lively programme of events featuring local authors.Watermill BookshopMill Street, Aberfeldy, Perthshire PH15\u00a02BG, 01887\u00a0822896Over three floors of a beautifully restored and converted listed building, the Watermill houses a gallery, homeware store, bookshop and cafe. But it's the award-winning bookshop that's at the heart of things and claims a sprawling space across shelves made of reclaimed timber and on old bits of mill machinery. Particular strengths include contemporary fiction, the outdoors, Scottish interest, cookery and children's books, which have a dedicated room. The cafe serves local, seasonal produce and good coffee, and doubles as the space for a busy programme of events featuring prominent local authors.Yeadons of Elgin 32 Commerce Street, Elgin, Moray IV30 1BS, 01343 542411Yeadons, one of Scotland's oldest bookshops, was established in 1887 by James Dawson Yeadon and in its time has had some well-known customers: Ramsay MacDonald was a regular. But when Vicky Dawson bought the shop in 2007, this faded north-east institution was almost bust. So the fact that it was, by 2009, independent bookshop of the year in Scotland after a major refit and relaunch is a cheering tale and a small miracle in the current economic climate. Dawson, who has more than 20 years' experience in the book trade, sells a great range of general titles in a stylish, light and airy interior, and also specialises in high-end stationery and writing accessories, such as French scented ink, leather-bound notebooks, and wax seals in gorgeous colours.Yeadons of Banchory 20 Dee Street, Banchory, Aberdeenshire AB31 5ST, 01330 822221This more contemporary branch of Yeadons may be smaller than the original, but the attention to style is the same, with the shop furnished with custom-built shelving, wooden floors, and vintage furniture from the 1950s and 60s. It offers a good general selection, with many local interest titles, in a beautiful Royal Deeside setting.South ScotlandAtkinson Pryce Books 27 High Street, Biggar, Lanarkshire ML12 6DA, 01899 221225There's a homely, domestic feel to this shop, with armchairs by the fireplace and staff referring to the main space as the \"sitting room\". The shop carries around 3,000 books, but its policy of ordering just one of most titles ensures that there's plenty of choice, including a strong representation of Scottish interest books and a good-sized children's section, which also contains a toy box and suitably sized table and chairs. Events are an intimate affair, seating just 22 people, and involve readings and literary lunches with authors. The bookshop also takes part in the town's annual arts festival, during the final weeks of October, running workshops for would-be writers and book illustrators.Forest Bookstore26 Market Place, Selkirk, Scottish Borders TD7 4BL, 01750 22763History and modern style meet in this serene bookshop and gallery space, which sits in the early 19th-century courthouse where Sir Walter Scott once presided as Sheriff of Selkirkshire. The shelves are heavy with books on art, the environment and beautiful modern editions of literary titles, alongside a good selection of classics, cookery books, gardening titles, Scottish interest, poetry, children's books and craft. The shop also stocks cards and stationery, and showcases the work of local artists in its gallery.Latimer Books5 Mill Wynd, Kelso TD5 7HP, 01573 225776Just off the main square in this handsome Borders town, Latimer Books is a great little shop. Run by a couple who used to work in the hotel trade, it combines their passion for all things bookish with exceptionally good service. Their approach is to make this a shop emphatically about books, with a great selection of titles across most main subject areas and a zippy ordering service. They do sell audio books, music, Ordnance Survey maps and cards, but this is really a book lover's sanctuary and a fine place to browse. Regular author events promote local writers.Main Street Trading Company Main Street, St Boswells, Roxburghshire TD6\u00a00AT, 01835 824087Owned by the former marketing director for children's books at Bloomsbury, Rosamund de la Hey, and her husband, Bill, the Main Street Trading Company sells coffee, food, beautiful gifts and homeware, but books are at the heart of things. The light and airy shop carries around 7,000 titles with an emphasis on children's books, fiction, cookery and biography. There are clever touches: the young adult section, for once, isn't lumped in with children's books. The shop also hosts book clubs and regular author events with writers such as Maggie O'Farrell, who described it as \"a bookshop so perfect you might have dreamed it\". This approach recently bore fruit with recognition as the Scottish independent bookshop of the year for 2011.Solway Books 14 St Cuthbert Street, Kirkcudbright, Dumfries and Galloway DG6 4HZ, 01557 330635Keith Chadband used to drive to work along London's gritty Old Kent Road, but these days his commute hugs the glorious Kirkcudbrightshire coastline. His bookshop offers new and secondhand stock in three large rooms, with new titles focusing on local interest and history, paperback modern fiction, children's books and reference. There's an emphasis on local authors such as Aline Templeton and Mark Frankland, and lots of maps and guides for walkers and cyclists. Free parking is available \u2013 a bonus in a town that gets clogged with holidaymakers during the summer months.\u00a0Kelsey's Bookshop 29 Market Street, Haddington, East Lothian EH41 3JE, 01620\u00a0826725This bright and friendly shop in the handsome market town of Haddington stocks a wide range of new titles in fiction, food and drink, gardening, reference and children's books, but its speciality is local history. Staff know this field particularly well and aim to stock all relevant titles, including some from very small local publishers. The shop, which has been going for over 20 years, now has a vibrant cafe and also stocks art materials.Bookpoint147 Argyll Street, Dunoon, Argyll PA23\u00a07DD, 01369\u00a0702377There's a huge selection of books at this bustling shop, which has been open for more than 35 years. Its range of 9,000 titles is especially strong on Scottish writing and history, ecology, adventure sports, the sea and sailing, and there is also\u00a0a well-stocked children's section. A book club meets each\u00a0month and you can expect other events featuring well-known authors, such as Emma Thompson, as well as local writers launching their first\u00a0books.", "tags": ["Booksellers", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Independent bookshops in Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-22T12:51:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "There must be a fundamental rethink of public services in Scotland, according to discussions at the Guardian Public Services Summit in Edinburgh.Taking place on Thursday, the day after Scottish finance minister John Swinney announced the spending review for Scotland's public services for the next three years, the Guardian summit explored the detail of how Scotland can face up to growing demand for public services in a continuing age of austerity. \"The country will go bankrupt if we just carry on doing things as we do now,\" said one speaker.Swinney's budget outlined further cuts and efficiencies in the public sector, along with the sale of 25% of government buildings, to allow him to redirect money into \u00a32.1bn worth of capital projects and protect public sector workers from compulsory redundancy. All the current policies on free prescriptions, free tuition for Scottish students, free personal care and a council tax freeze would be maintained.Overall, spending on student support will jump from \u00a3516m this year to \u00a3855m in 2014 \u2013 the largest growth of any Scottish government spending area.Rory Mair, chief executive of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, told the conference that there needed to be a focus on first principles. \"If we don't solve the problem of inequality ... the pressure on public services will be even greater,\" he said. \"It is not a loss of resources that will bring austerity, but increased demand.\" Mair said statistics about Scottish services, which show that, on average, people are doing reasonably well, disguise some appalling outcomes for a small minority.How radical should change be? Martin Sime, chief executive of the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations, argued that there should be a national Scottish framework for self-help, saying that helping people to help themselves, before expensive care or health intervention is needed is the only way to offset public spending cuts. \"The government must step out of local and departmental silos,\" he said. Instead, public bodies should back self-directed support. \"The orthodoxy that there should be more and better services will be challenged as never before,\" he said.Speakers acknowledged the challenges of change. \"There will be conflict; there will be difficult conversations,\" said Hilary Cottam, founder and principal partner of Participle, which runs a number of innovative projects.The state must retain some authoritative roles \u2013 in mental health services, and in audit and accountability, for instance \u2013 other speakers pointed out.And there was widespread agreement that strong leadership was essential, with politicians and public managers working together to agree on the fundamental principles of public services, and the need to focus on people's needs. How far that will include new forms of delivery, including the private sector, social enterprises and voluntary organisations, in a country that appears very wedded to public sector delivery of services remains the subject of intense discussion.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Local government", "Policy", "Collaboration", "Leadership and management", "Finance", "Social Care Network", "Policy", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland must rethink public services"},{"date": "2011-09-12T12:38:16Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's NHS will switch its focus from new technology projects, to the benefits and outcomes they deliver to healthcare professionals in helping them redesign and improve services, the Scottish government has said.The government's new eHealth strategy for 2011-2017 outlines a number of key priorities to help patients get more engaged with the health service. These include:\u2022 The development of a national multi-channel strategy on 'citizen eHealth' to improve the range of contact that people can have with the NHS.\u2022 Use of electronic information portals by all health boards to provide essential information to front line staff, saving time and improving patient safety.\u2022 A new health and social care IT strategy in partnership with local authorities, which will help pave the way for improvements in information sharing between health and social care workers and see greater integration of health and social care services.\u2022 The establishment of programmes to replace paper with digital equivalents, along with digital dictation, voice recognition, scanning and videoconferencing by 2014.The document says that the Scottish government wants to continue to deliver successful eHealth technology to patients over the next six years, adding that there are a number of successful projects that patients have already benefited from. They include the Renal PatientView system, which allows renal patients to see their latest test results online and engage in tele-consultations with clinicians.The strategy stresses that the government wants to \"exploit\" the value of the new IT capabilities that were acquired as part of its previous eHealth strategy for 2008-11.\"The programme will be a revenue-based improvement programme leveraging the IT assets to support the quality improvements that NHS Scotland has committed itself to. From 2011-12, the majority of eHealth funding will be distributed to boards, rather than allocated on a project-by-project basis or spent centrally by the Scottish government,\" explains the document.It goes on to say that the recent review of public sector IT by John McClelland set out a challenging agenda of change for the public sector. The document says the government will strive to meet the objectives outlined in McClelland's report, which urged the health service to work with other parts of the public sector and to further embed national eHealth governance within the NHS to cover all ICT projects and services.|\"The eHealth strategy board will engage with the wider national initiatives as they are developed and will report within six months on further development of the successful eHealth governance approaches,\" it adds.The document outlines five new strategic aims to be the focus of its activity over the next six years. They are: supporting people to communicate with NHS Scotland; contributing to care integration; improving medicines safety; enhancing the availability of information for staff; and maximising efficient work practices.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's health secretary, said: \"Our new eHealth strategy will see boards put new technology in place that will give patients online access to their medical records, improve patient safety, allow NHS staff to share information appropriately and move us ever closer to a paper free NHS.\"Citizens are at the heart of this new strategy and I want to see the latest eHealth technology used right across the frontline services so they can see the full benefit.\"Scotland's new eHealth strategy follows significant investment in its health services over the last six months, particularly in areas such as telehealth and patient records.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Efficiency", "Work practices", "Health", "Social Care Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland publishes new eHealth strategy"},{"date": "2011-09-06T09:31:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "My proudest political moment remains, aged five, starting a chant against the Tories. Along with 50,000 Scots, my family \u2013 then living in Falkirk \u2013 had taken to the streets of Glasgow in the spring of 1990 to march against the poll tax. Brandishing a small flyer, I precociously yelled the slogan \"Kick the Tories out!\" Not that I really knew who the Tories were (other than that they were \"very bad people\") but the surrounding crowd certainly did \u2013 and they repeated the slogan with passion, rage and defiance.The Scottish people rejected Thatcherism at the polls time and time again, but suffered the imposition of the detested so-called \"community charge\" a year before the rest of the country. It triggered the most successful campaign of civil disobedience in British history. Millions \u2013 including my parents \u2013 refused to pay a tax that hit the poor far harder than the rich. Even when the British electorate unexpectedly failed to \"kick the Tories out\" in 1992, three out of four Scots voted to do exactly that.Recalling those passionate scenes in 1990, the plans of Murdo Fraser \u2013 the frontrunner for Scottish Tory leadership \u2013 to relaunch his party under a new name aren't surprising. For most, it is difficult to imagine the Conservatives being anything other than a toxic political brand in Scotland. This is, after all, the country of Red Clydeside; of Willie Gallacher, the former Communist MP for West Fife; and of the hard-left Scottish Socialist party, which until four years ago had six members in the Scottish parliament.But \u2013 despite the country's radical traditions \u2013 the strange death of Tory Scotland is more recent than many Scots would like to remember. Nearly half the British electorate voted Tory in 1955; but in Scotland, over half voted for the Unionist party \u2013 the then-sister party of the Conservatives. The Tories have the remarkable claim of being the only party to have ever won a majority of the Scottish vote. And yet at the last general election, the near-fringe party status of the Tories was confirmed when less than 17% of Scots voted for them.It is certainly true that the crisis of Scottish Toryism began before Margaret Thatcher demolished the post-war consensus. In 1965, the national party took direct control of the Scottish Unionists, who were rebranded the \"Scottish Conservative and Unionist party\". This was a big mistake in a country with such a proud national identity. And as was once the case in Liverpool, working-class Toryism was inextricably linked with Protestantism and anti-Catholic sentiments. Indeed, when Scottish Toryism triumphed in 1955, record numbers of Scots were flocking to the Church of Scotland. But as active Protestantism and the sectarian Orange Order waned in strength after the 1950s, the base of Scottish Toryism was chipped away.Even so, the death spiral of Scottish Toryism did not begin until Thatcher came to power in 1979. Her governments certainly found ways to affront Scottish national pride. North Sea oil was discovered a few years before the Conservatives came to power, but as Scotland was particularly battered by recession and de-industrialisation in the 1980s, there was growing resentment at the billions of pounds of revenue flowing straight to the Treasury in London \u2013 no less than \u00a3300bn in the past 30 years.But much of Scotland's passionate \u2013 and relatively recent \u2013 hatred of Toryism isn't as unique as some might think. It is shared with much of northern England, all of which repeatedly voted against the Tories but suffered from the worst excesses of their rule. Outside Tory England, it was like living under a foreign occupation: my Stockport primary school teachers dressed in black when John Major was returned to Downing Street in 1992.The destruction of British industry \u2013 particularly in the early 1980s \u2013 had much to do with this shared resentment. In 1991, the number of manufacturing jobs in Glasgow was just a third of the level two decades earlier. Two years after Thatcher's election victory, Glasgow was 208th down the list of local authorities for economic inactivity; a decade later, it had risen to 10th place.Northern industrial areas were similarly hammered in the two recessions of the early 1980s and early 1990s. The trauma of mass unemployment under Conservative governments has made anti-Toryism a kind of folk hatred passed from generation to generation in parts of Britain. No wonder, then, that the north-east of England rejected the Conservatives almost as decisively as Scotland at the last election: less than 24% voted Tory, while Labour \u2013 facing its second worst result since 1918 on a national level \u2013 won nearly 44%. The legacy of Thatcherism has left the Tories with a glass ceiling of support \u2013 which partly explains why the party failed to win the last election despite a woefully unpopular Labour government and the worst economic crisis since the 1930s.What is unique about Scottish anti-Toryism is that it has fused with a powerful sense of national pride. Because New Labour accepted many of the key pillars of Thatcherism, it was unable to capitalise on this antagonism effectively. The SNP, on the other hand, reinvented itself as a social democratic nationalist party that drew on a renewed, anti-Tory patriotism. With a hardline Thatcherite government back in office in London, the SNP can present itself as the protector of Scotland in a repeat of the 1980s.The bottom line is that Murdo Fraser can call the Scottish Tories what he likes. The Scottish electorate, however, are neither stupid nor forgetful. Toryism is dead as a mass political force in Scotland, and it is unlikely to ever come back.", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Margaret Thatcher"], "title": "Toryism is dead in Scotland | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2011-08-05T14:12:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has run new tests on e-counting technology in advance of next year's local government elections.Along with technology supplier Logica it held a dummy run to count 160,000 ballot papers in Perth today. This was the latest stage in testing the system, which uses an off-the-shelf software from Opt2Vote.Aileen Campbell, the Scottish government minister for local government planning, said: \"Compared to a manual count which would take at least two to three days, e-counting will be much faster and more transparent. This test is a crucial milestone in the project to make e-counting a reality in 2012.\"Logica is providing the programme management, training services, printing services and more than 40 project and count centre managers for the election under a contract awarded in October 2010.Scotland's previous experience of e-counting in the local government elections of 2007 came under criticism from several quarters, including the Scottish affairs committee of the House of Commons. It issued a report the following year that said the technology performed poorly and there was a lack of transparency in the process, and said it would not support the use of e-counting again until these problems were resolved.When the Scottish government awarded the contract to Logica last year, Jim Mather, the minister for enterprise, energy and tourism at the time, said steps had been taken to ensure there was no repeat of the problems of 2007.Martin Ewart, Logica's managing director Scotland, told GGC that it had dealt with the concerns over transparency largely by providing screens on which election scrutineers could see when a ballot is subject to adjudication, and management information on how far the process has advanced in each ward.\"We are in a really solid place,\" he said, adding that more pilots will be run before next year's poll, scaling to handle more votes and extending to disaster recovery.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Software"], "title": "Scotland tests e-counting technology"},{"date": "2011-09-26T10:14:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has called on the UK government to support the creation of a .scot internet domain for Scotland.Alex Neil, cabinet secretary for infrastructure and capital investment has written to counterpart Ed Vaizey, minister for culture, communications and creative industries, asking him to back the not-for-profit company Dot Scot Registry (DSR) which has been set up specifically to ensure a domain is established.The move has been timed in advance of a three month period, beginning on 12 January 2012, when the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) will open the application window for new top level domains.Neil said: \"The Scottish Government is behind this company (DSR) because we believe there is strong demand for a dotscot domain and that it should be run as a public resource on a not-for-profit basis that will quickly become self-financing.\"I am sure the UK government with its responsibility for internet governance will want to support us. Across the board support would undoubtedly strengthen our hand and build momentum behind the bid.\"Dotscot will be a wonderful asset for establishing a distinctive online identity for many organisations and people who have been described as the worldwide family of Scots and want to demonstrate that identity online.\"A spokesperson for the Scottish Government told GGC that it is not yet thinking seriously about whether to move public sector websites to a new domain, but that it could consider the idea in the future.At time of publication the Department for Culture, Media and Sport had not given an indication on whether it is likely to back the application.A similar campaign has been launched to provide a .cymru domain for Wales. The dotCYM campaign group said it would play a role in validating Welsh culture and language.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Devolved government", "Frontline"], "title": "Scotland calls for Whitehall support on .scot"},{"date": "2011-09-23T13:40:14Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland could teach the rest of the UK a thing or two when it comes to a streamlined model of government, says Sir John Elvidge, former permanent secretary to the Scottish government.Elvidge sets out 12 lessons that could be learnt from Scotland's first 12 years of devolved government in a paper launched on Friday.He said that radical changes he made under the minority SNP party in 2007 \u2013 which involved abolishing departments, redefining top civil service roles and aligning the entire Scottish public sector around a single framework of national purpose that would be tracked and measured \u2013 were a world first.\"In partnership between civil service and political leadership, a radical Scottish model of government has developed since 2007, building on the learning from the earlier period of devolution. It is based on the effort to have government function as a single organisation, working towards a single defined government purpose based on outcomes, and establishing a partnership based on that purpose with the rest of the public sector which is capable of being joined by other parts of civil society.\"It places strategic leadership and the facilitation of co-operation between organisations and sections of society at the heart of the role of central government, rather than a managerialist view of the relationship of central government to others. It is an explicit rejection of departmentalism as a basis for effective government and involves the abolition of a departmental structure within the Scottish government.\"Elvidge writes in his paper, which was launched at the Institute for Government's inside devolution conference, that the shake-up was to pull apart entrenched silos that had become a feature of a coalition government.\"One of the consequences of coalition was to strengthen the desire of individual ministers to maximise their own degree of autonomy and, consequently, that of their department.\" But this did not exploit \"the potential benefits of being able to address the wide range of responsibilities within a relatively compact central government\". By unifying the system, he said, the Scottish government was able to manage spending reductions in 2009 and 2010.Elvidge's paper comes a day after the British civil service was criticised for its \"institutional inertia, complacency and a lack of specialist expertise\", which was keeping its head down over reform.He said the Scottish civil service had played \"a central role\" in effecting and establishing change. \"As well as providing essential continuity of understanding about the processes of government, it has displayed agility and energy in assisting the adaptation of that understanding to fresh challenges,\" he said.Elvidge, once the most senior civil servant in Scotland, praised the Scottish public leadership forum, which was set up in 2006 and brings together all Scottish public sector leaders, for aiding the new style of government.While he is keen to emphasise that the paper makes no comment on Scottish politics, \"my central proposition is that we are making less use than we could and should within the UK of the opportunities for transferable learning from the experience of devolution,\" he said.Lord Adonis, director of the Institute for Government, said: \"Whitehall and Westminster have not woken up to the big changes north of the border. The new Scottish model offers a real challenge to the departmental way of doing business. IfG has already looked at ways of better joining up within current structures \u2013 Sir John's paper shows that, with political consent, a different way is possible\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Public Leaders Network free to receive regular emails on the issues at the top of the professional agenda.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Central government", "Leadership and management", "Efficiency and risk"], "title": "Lessons from Scotland on streamlining government"},{"date": "2011-09-23T13:38:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has signed a \u00a318.5m, four year contract with Amor Group to run eProcurement Scotland, the agency which provides online purchasing services for the public sector.Alex Neil, the Scottish Government's cabinet secretary for infrastructure and capital investment, said: \"The award of this contract builds upon Scotland's successes in the deployment and management of public sector e-procurement technologies.\"It also showcases Scotland's supplier capability to host and manage what is regarded as one of the leading government e-commerce services.\"Amor Group said it will deliver eProcurement Scotland services from a range of locations. The main hosting centre will be at the Scottish Government's Saughton House in Edinburgh, while user support services will be provided from the company's desk in Aberdeen.Support for the integration and transition process will come from Amor Group's headquarters near Glasgow.In a statement the company said the contract will provide carbon savings by using a virtual hosting environment, which will reduce the infrastructure from more than 73 servers to 19.A spokesman for the Scottish Government said the contract could be extended by three years taking the value up to \u00a336m.eProcurement Scotland was set up in 2002 as a fully hosted and managed e-procurement service for Scottish central and local government, education and healthcare. Its services include e-sourcing, which covers electronic tendering and auctions, and a transactional purchase-to-pay system.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For updates on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Procurement", "Efficiency", "Devolved government", "E-commerce"], "title": "\u00a318.5m deal will deliver eProcurement Scotland"},{"date": "2011-09-19T13:02:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish Government has unveiled plans to train hundreds of dementia champions over the next two years to work across the NHS and councils. It is taking the step in a bid to drive up standards of care for people with dementia.As part of the plans, the government has awarded a contract to the University of West of Scotland and voluntary organisation Alzheimer Scotland to train an initial 100 dementia champions this year. Champions will be recruited from acute general hospitals and will be responsible for ensuring the needs of patients with dementia are met, as well as leading and supporting change in care.The government said that five Alzheimer Scotland dementia nurse consultants have already been appointed across the country as part of the programme. Discussions are currently taking place to secure the appointment of a nurse consultant on each NHS board.Joint funding has been provided by Alzheimer Scotland and the Scottish Government and it is expected that all boards in Scotland will have made appointments by the end of the year. The plans are a major strand of Scotland's first ever National Dementia Strategy, and will be backed by funding of more than \u00a3500,000 this year.Cabinet secretary for health and wellbeing, Nicola Sturgeon, said: \"As I said in parliament just this week, providing the very best care for every older person on every occasion, in care homes and in hospitals continues to be a personal priority. This funding and the new posts it will create demonstrate that action to further improve older people's care - and the care of people with dementia at any age - is beginning to take place.\"She said it was important for the NHS and local authorities to be well equipped to understand the needs of people with dementia and their families \"in order to ensure that their dignity, independence and wishes are met\".Sturgeon added: \"These key changes show just how much we prioritise older people's care within government and will mean that the dementia care provided by both NHS and social care staff will meet the highest possible standards.\"Henry Simmons, chief executive of Alzheimer Scotland, said he was happy with the way the government has started to approach dementia care.\"We are very pleased with the progress being made in implementing the National Dementia Strategy and welcome the personal commitment of the cabinet secretary, Nicola Sturgeon,\" he said. \"We have long campaigned to highlight the difficulties faced by people with dementia in our acute general hospitals and care services generally.\"This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Policy", "Social Care Network", "social care network: adult social care hub", "Scotland", "Policy", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland outlines plans to improve dementia care"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-11-01T21:00:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The government needs to show the strong leadership and clear intent of its Scottish counterpart and introduce an alcohol minimum pricing bill if it is serious about calling time on alcohol misuse (Report, 27 October). Here in Co Durham and Darlington, we have a huge problem. A big percentage of our violent crime is alcohol-related and we have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related hospital admissions in the country. Too many people are consuming too much alcohol. Research shows that as price has decreased, consumption has increased \u2013 the average person is drinking almost 11 litres of alcohol a year, more than twice the average consumption in the 1950s.We need more effective solutions. Evidence suggests introduction of a minimum price per unit of alcohol would make alcohol less affordable, thus reducing consumption and in turn the associated harm. A report produced today by a number of harm-reduction organisations \u2013 including Balance, the north-east's alcohol office, contains a survey of more than 600 alcohol products sold in supermarkets across northern England and Scotland, revealing cans of lager for as little as 23p, two-litre bottles of cider for \u00a31.34, a shot of vodka for 28p and a unit of alcohol for just 12p. It's little wonder that a third of north-easterners are drinking above the government's recommended limits on a daily or almost daily basis, that one in five binge-drinks weekly, and that we face the problems we do. Given we are consuming alcohol at a similar level to Scotland, we face the same problems in terms of health and crime and disorder, and we are selling alcohol as cheaply if not more so \u2013 shouldn't we be following Scotland's example? Jon StoddartChief constable, Durham Constabulary", "tags": ["Alcohol", "Society", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Letters: Anti-alcohol lesson from Scotland"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-11-01T21:00:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The government needs to show the strong leadership and clear intent of its Scottish counterpart and introduce an alcohol minimum pricing bill if it is serious about calling time on alcohol misuse (Report, 27 October). Here in Co Durham and Darlington, we have a huge problem. A big percentage of our violent crime is alcohol-related and we have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related hospital admissions in the country. Too many people are consuming too much alcohol. Research shows that as price has decreased, consumption has increased \u2013 the average person is drinking almost 11 litres of alcohol a year, more than twice the average consumption in the 1950s.We need more effective solutions. Evidence suggests introduction of a minimum price per unit of alcohol would make alcohol less affordable, thus reducing consumption and in turn the associated harm. A report produced today by a number of harm-reduction organisations \u2013 including Balance, the north-east's alcohol office, contains a survey of more than 600 alcohol products sold in supermarkets across northern England and Scotland, revealing cans of lager for as little as 23p, two-litre bottles of cider for \u00a31.34, a shot of vodka for 28p and a unit of alcohol for just 12p. It's little wonder that a third of north-easterners are drinking above the government's recommended limits on a daily or almost daily basis, that one in five binge-drinks weekly, and that we face the problems we do. Given we are consuming alcohol at a similar level to Scotland, we face the same problems in terms of health and crime and disorder, and we are selling alcohol as cheaply if not more so \u2013 shouldn't we be following Scotland's example? Jon StoddartChief constable, Durham Constabulary", "tags": ["Alcohol", "Society", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Letters: Anti-alcohol lesson from Scotland"},{"date": "2011-12-23T21:00:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "You seem to have conceived the notion that Scotland will vote for independence (Comment, 20 November). Indeed, it is seeming more likely. I don't have a nationalist bone in my body, but if the choice is between belonging to some kind of a weird Daily Maily-coalitiony Englandshire aspiring to be a second Switzerland (nothing against the Swiss, but is one not plenty, and they are good at it), and living next door to a gently declining but essentially civilised Scotland, I will vote for separation. But you also seem to think such a referendum victory means the end of the UK. Not at\u00a0all, unless and until the SNP are voted\u00a0out. They are determined to keep\u00a0her nibs!Drew RatterOllaberry, Shetland\u2022 I'm struggling to find reasons why the Scottish people should have much love for the English but, please guys, if you are going to go, reserve a few million spare passports to enable those of us born to the south and east of the borders to join you. Hard to believe as it may be at times, not all the English are greedy, selfish, anti-European, banker-sympathising, road-raging, Strictly Come Dancing-watching, arrogant public school, weak-chinned wallies.Dr Sam LangridgeBuxted, East Sussex\u2022 John Hodgson (Letters, 22 December) wonders what the \"rump state\" would be called if Scotland were to become independent. Surely the simple answer is that most people, including President Obama, would just keep on calling it \"England\" as they do at present!Willie MacfadyenStirling\u2022 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) provides us with the\u00a0clue. England, Wales and Northern Ireland would be known as the FUK.Christopher GordonWinchester, Hampshire\u2022 I always understood Scotland put the \"Great\" in Great Britain, so without Scotland we'd simply become Britain.John WhiteheadLondon\u2022 The best suggestion yet is surely United Kingdom of Southern Britain and Northern Ireland.Gregor BentonLlantwit Major, South Glamorgan\u2022 John Owen writes that the Welsh name for England is Lloegyr, the foreign lands (Letters, 22 December). The English name \"Welsh\" means exactly the same, \"foreigners\". To this day, the German speakers in Switzerland refer to the French and Italian cantons as the Welschland, the foreign parts.Martin D SternSalford", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "If Scotland did vote for independence\u2026"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-11-01T21:00:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The government needs to show the strong leadership and clear intent of its Scottish counterpart and introduce an alcohol minimum pricing bill if it is serious about calling time on alcohol misuse (Report, 27 October). Here in Co Durham and Darlington, we have a huge problem. A big percentage of our violent crime is alcohol-related and we have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related hospital admissions in the country. Too many people are consuming too much alcohol. Research shows that as price has decreased, consumption has increased \u2013 the average person is drinking almost 11 litres of alcohol a year, more than twice the average consumption in the 1950s.We need more effective solutions. Evidence suggests introduction of a minimum price per unit of alcohol would make alcohol less affordable, thus reducing consumption and in turn the associated harm. A report produced today by a number of harm-reduction organisations \u2013 including Balance, the north-east's alcohol office, contains a survey of more than 600 alcohol products sold in supermarkets across northern England and Scotland, revealing cans of lager for as little as 23p, two-litre bottles of cider for \u00a31.34, a shot of vodka for 28p and a unit of alcohol for just 12p. It's little wonder that a third of north-easterners are drinking above the government's recommended limits on a daily or almost daily basis, that one in five binge-drinks weekly, and that we face the problems we do. Given we are consuming alcohol at a similar level to Scotland, we face the same problems in terms of health and crime and disorder, and we are selling alcohol as cheaply if not more so \u2013 shouldn't we be following Scotland's example? Jon StoddartChief constable, Durham Constabulary", "tags": ["Alcohol", "Society", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Letters: Anti-alcohol lesson from Scotland"},{"date": "2011-12-23T21:00:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "You seem to have conceived the notion that Scotland will vote for independence (Comment, 20 November). Indeed, it is seeming more likely. I don't have a nationalist bone in my body, but if the choice is between belonging to some kind of a weird Daily Maily-coalitiony Englandshire aspiring to be a second Switzerland (nothing against the Swiss, but is one not plenty, and they are good at it), and living next door to a gently declining but essentially civilised Scotland, I will vote for separation. But you also seem to think such a referendum victory means the end of the UK. Not at\u00a0all, unless and until the SNP are voted\u00a0out. They are determined to keep\u00a0her nibs!Drew RatterOllaberry, Shetland\u2022 I'm struggling to find reasons why the Scottish people should have much love for the English but, please guys, if you are going to go, reserve a few million spare passports to enable those of us born to the south and east of the borders to join you. Hard to believe as it may be at times, not all the English are greedy, selfish, anti-European, banker-sympathising, road-raging, Strictly Come Dancing-watching, arrogant public school, weak-chinned wallies.Dr Sam LangridgeBuxted, East Sussex\u2022 John Hodgson (Letters, 22 December) wonders what the \"rump state\" would be called if Scotland were to become independent. Surely the simple answer is that most people, including President Obama, would just keep on calling it \"England\" as they do at present!Willie MacfadyenStirling\u2022 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) provides us with the\u00a0clue. England, Wales and Northern Ireland would be known as the FUK.Christopher GordonWinchester, Hampshire\u2022 I always understood Scotland put the \"Great\" in Great Britain, so without Scotland we'd simply become Britain.John WhiteheadLondon\u2022 The best suggestion yet is surely United Kingdom of Southern Britain and Northern Ireland.Gregor BentonLlantwit Major, South Glamorgan\u2022 John Owen writes that the Welsh name for England is Lloegyr, the foreign lands (Letters, 22 December). The English name \"Welsh\" means exactly the same, \"foreigners\". To this day, the German speakers in Switzerland refer to the French and Italian cantons as the Welschland, the foreign parts.Martin D SternSalford", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "If Scotland did vote for independence\u2026"},{"date": "2011-12-19T14:23:56Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All health bodies in Scotland met their financial targets, but 10 out of 14 NHS boards have reported underlying recurring deficits, Scotland's spending watchdog has said.In an overview of the NHS in Scotland's performance for 2010-11, Audit Scotland says that the service faces pressures from an ageing population, rising public demand and expectations, increased costs and staff reduction. The NHS spent \u00a312bn in 2010-11, with the budget for 2011-12 estimated to be \u00a3232m higher. However, this will be a reduction in real terms due to inflation.According to the report, life expectancy in Scotland has increased and the rate of deaths from coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer has also fallen. Despite this, overall life expectancy in Scotland remains lower than that in most other western European countries and there are still significant health inequalities and long-standing health related problems such as obesity and drug and alcohol misuse.Robert Black, auditor general for Scotland, said: \"At a national level, we are seeing a good picture of the performance of the NHS in Scotland. In 2010-11, all NHS boards met their financial targets for the third year in a row, and there is continued progress against the 'big three' diseases of coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer. However, it is clear that there are building pressures in the system from increased costs and rising expectations and demand.\"Audit Scotland says that the NHS cannot tackle these problems alone and needs to work more effectively with other public bodies to make the best use of resources and increase the focus on preventative services.The watchdog also says that strategies to improve services and make the NHS more efficient and effective will need to include better use of data. The NHS continues to find it difficult to measure productivity due to weaknesses in data and difficulties in linking costs, activity and quality, the report says.Scotland has invested quite heavily on technology such as telehealth over the last year in a bid to support independent living for those with disabilities and age-related illnesses and keep people out of hospitals where possible.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Hospitals and acute care", "Public health", "Workforce", "Data management", "Policy", "Efficiency"], "title": "NHS Scotland faces 'significant challenges,' warns auditor"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-11-01T21:00:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The government needs to show the strong leadership and clear intent of its Scottish counterpart and introduce an alcohol minimum pricing bill if it is serious about calling time on alcohol misuse (Report, 27 October). Here in Co Durham and Darlington, we have a huge problem. A big percentage of our violent crime is alcohol-related and we have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related hospital admissions in the country. Too many people are consuming too much alcohol. Research shows that as price has decreased, consumption has increased \u2013 the average person is drinking almost 11 litres of alcohol a year, more than twice the average consumption in the 1950s.We need more effective solutions. Evidence suggests introduction of a minimum price per unit of alcohol would make alcohol less affordable, thus reducing consumption and in turn the associated harm. A report produced today by a number of harm-reduction organisations \u2013 including Balance, the north-east's alcohol office, contains a survey of more than 600 alcohol products sold in supermarkets across northern England and Scotland, revealing cans of lager for as little as 23p, two-litre bottles of cider for \u00a31.34, a shot of vodka for 28p and a unit of alcohol for just 12p. It's little wonder that a third of north-easterners are drinking above the government's recommended limits on a daily or almost daily basis, that one in five binge-drinks weekly, and that we face the problems we do. Given we are consuming alcohol at a similar level to Scotland, we face the same problems in terms of health and crime and disorder, and we are selling alcohol as cheaply if not more so \u2013 shouldn't we be following Scotland's example? Jon StoddartChief constable, Durham Constabulary", "tags": ["Alcohol", "Society", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Letters: Anti-alcohol lesson from Scotland"},{"date": "2011-12-23T21:00:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "You seem to have conceived the notion that Scotland will vote for independence (Comment, 20 November). Indeed, it is seeming more likely. I don't have a nationalist bone in my body, but if the choice is between belonging to some kind of a weird Daily Maily-coalitiony Englandshire aspiring to be a second Switzerland (nothing against the Swiss, but is one not plenty, and they are good at it), and living next door to a gently declining but essentially civilised Scotland, I will vote for separation. But you also seem to think such a referendum victory means the end of the UK. Not at\u00a0all, unless and until the SNP are voted\u00a0out. They are determined to keep\u00a0her nibs!Drew RatterOllaberry, Shetland\u2022 I'm struggling to find reasons why the Scottish people should have much love for the English but, please guys, if you are going to go, reserve a few million spare passports to enable those of us born to the south and east of the borders to join you. Hard to believe as it may be at times, not all the English are greedy, selfish, anti-European, banker-sympathising, road-raging, Strictly Come Dancing-watching, arrogant public school, weak-chinned wallies.Dr Sam LangridgeBuxted, East Sussex\u2022 John Hodgson (Letters, 22 December) wonders what the \"rump state\" would be called if Scotland were to become independent. Surely the simple answer is that most people, including President Obama, would just keep on calling it \"England\" as they do at present!Willie MacfadyenStirling\u2022 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) provides us with the\u00a0clue. England, Wales and Northern Ireland would be known as the FUK.Christopher GordonWinchester, Hampshire\u2022 I always understood Scotland put the \"Great\" in Great Britain, so without Scotland we'd simply become Britain.John WhiteheadLondon\u2022 The best suggestion yet is surely United Kingdom of Southern Britain and Northern Ireland.Gregor BentonLlantwit Major, South Glamorgan\u2022 John Owen writes that the Welsh name for England is Lloegyr, the foreign lands (Letters, 22 December). The English name \"Welsh\" means exactly the same, \"foreigners\". To this day, the German speakers in Switzerland refer to the French and Italian cantons as the Welschland, the foreign parts.Martin D SternSalford", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "If Scotland did vote for independence\u2026"},{"date": "2011-12-19T14:23:56Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All health bodies in Scotland met their financial targets, but 10 out of 14 NHS boards have reported underlying recurring deficits, Scotland's spending watchdog has said.In an overview of the NHS in Scotland's performance for 2010-11, Audit Scotland says that the service faces pressures from an ageing population, rising public demand and expectations, increased costs and staff reduction. The NHS spent \u00a312bn in 2010-11, with the budget for 2011-12 estimated to be \u00a3232m higher. However, this will be a reduction in real terms due to inflation.According to the report, life expectancy in Scotland has increased and the rate of deaths from coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer has also fallen. Despite this, overall life expectancy in Scotland remains lower than that in most other western European countries and there are still significant health inequalities and long-standing health related problems such as obesity and drug and alcohol misuse.Robert Black, auditor general for Scotland, said: \"At a national level, we are seeing a good picture of the performance of the NHS in Scotland. In 2010-11, all NHS boards met their financial targets for the third year in a row, and there is continued progress against the 'big three' diseases of coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer. However, it is clear that there are building pressures in the system from increased costs and rising expectations and demand.\"Audit Scotland says that the NHS cannot tackle these problems alone and needs to work more effectively with other public bodies to make the best use of resources and increase the focus on preventative services.The watchdog also says that strategies to improve services and make the NHS more efficient and effective will need to include better use of data. The NHS continues to find it difficult to measure productivity due to weaknesses in data and difficulties in linking costs, activity and quality, the report says.Scotland has invested quite heavily on technology such as telehealth over the last year in a bid to support independent living for those with disabilities and age-related illnesses and keep people out of hospitals where possible.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Hospitals and acute care", "Public health", "Workforce", "Data management", "Policy", "Efficiency"], "title": "NHS Scotland faces 'significant challenges,' warns auditor"},{"date": "2011-12-18T22:15:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The weekend election of Johann Lamont to lead the Scottish Labour party is important. But only time and the Scottish National party will decide whether it will matter to anyone except political anoraks. After its debacle in the Holyrood elections, Scottish Labour desperately needs to regain a sense of political purpose and electoral credibility. That, though, is easier to say than to do. Labour remains by some distance the second party in Scotland. But it has long been used to coming a dominant first. Ms Lamont said the right things about the need for change in her acceptance speech on Saturday, but it remains open to doubt how far she and those who elected her really want to go.The manner of Ms Lamont's victory has distinct echoes of Ed Miliband's narrow victory as British Labour leader 15 months ago. Now, as then, the new leader won in an electoral college contest only because of heavy support from the trade unions. Now, as then, the defeated candidate \u2013 Ken Macintosh, like David Miliband \u2013 won a comfortable majority among the party's individual members. The only big difference between the two contests is that Ms Lamont also got a majority among the party's parliamentarians, something Ed Miliband failed to do. Yet the facts remain. She is not the choice of the party grassroots and she would not be leader under the one-member-one-vote systems now used by all Britain's other major parties. It does not help that Labour has failed to publish a full result, including the numbers voting. Labour should look again at its electoral system. It looks unfair and it is unfair.Ms Lamont faces four immediate challenges. The first is to raise her profile. No Labour leader in Scotland has ever been less well known. The second is to start cutting into the SNP's substantial opinion poll lead and to start winning back lost seats in local government again; she does not have much time, since all Scottish local authorities will go to the polls as soon as May. The third is to find a skilful way of combatting the SNP leader Alex Salmond's current mastery of his chosen arenas of political combat at Holyrood and in the television studios: this is more a matter of choosing a different and cannier style of combat rather than trying to outpunch Mr Salmond directly. And the fourth is to work with other parties (and civil society too) to reverse the SNP's current grip on the constitutional agenda, particularly by challenging the nationalists' delaying tactics on the independence referendum plan and by prising Mr Salmond's hands off the devolution alternative too. All of these things can be done \u2013 but Labour has thought that before, and failed. Ms Lamont does not have much time to prove she will be better than her failed predecessors.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Labour", "Politics"], "title": "Labour in Scotland: trying to catch Salmond | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-11-01T21:00:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The government needs to show the strong leadership and clear intent of its Scottish counterpart and introduce an alcohol minimum pricing bill if it is serious about calling time on alcohol misuse (Report, 27 October). Here in Co Durham and Darlington, we have a huge problem. A big percentage of our violent crime is alcohol-related and we have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related hospital admissions in the country. Too many people are consuming too much alcohol. Research shows that as price has decreased, consumption has increased \u2013 the average person is drinking almost 11 litres of alcohol a year, more than twice the average consumption in the 1950s.We need more effective solutions. Evidence suggests introduction of a minimum price per unit of alcohol would make alcohol less affordable, thus reducing consumption and in turn the associated harm. A report produced today by a number of harm-reduction organisations \u2013 including Balance, the north-east's alcohol office, contains a survey of more than 600 alcohol products sold in supermarkets across northern England and Scotland, revealing cans of lager for as little as 23p, two-litre bottles of cider for \u00a31.34, a shot of vodka for 28p and a unit of alcohol for just 12p. It's little wonder that a third of north-easterners are drinking above the government's recommended limits on a daily or almost daily basis, that one in five binge-drinks weekly, and that we face the problems we do. Given we are consuming alcohol at a similar level to Scotland, we face the same problems in terms of health and crime and disorder, and we are selling alcohol as cheaply if not more so \u2013 shouldn't we be following Scotland's example? Jon StoddartChief constable, Durham Constabulary", "tags": ["Alcohol", "Society", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Letters: Anti-alcohol lesson from Scotland"},{"date": "2011-12-23T21:00:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "You seem to have conceived the notion that Scotland will vote for independence (Comment, 20 November). Indeed, it is seeming more likely. I don't have a nationalist bone in my body, but if the choice is between belonging to some kind of a weird Daily Maily-coalitiony Englandshire aspiring to be a second Switzerland (nothing against the Swiss, but is one not plenty, and they are good at it), and living next door to a gently declining but essentially civilised Scotland, I will vote for separation. But you also seem to think such a referendum victory means the end of the UK. Not at\u00a0all, unless and until the SNP are voted\u00a0out. They are determined to keep\u00a0her nibs!Drew RatterOllaberry, Shetland\u2022 I'm struggling to find reasons why the Scottish people should have much love for the English but, please guys, if you are going to go, reserve a few million spare passports to enable those of us born to the south and east of the borders to join you. Hard to believe as it may be at times, not all the English are greedy, selfish, anti-European, banker-sympathising, road-raging, Strictly Come Dancing-watching, arrogant public school, weak-chinned wallies.Dr Sam LangridgeBuxted, East Sussex\u2022 John Hodgson (Letters, 22 December) wonders what the \"rump state\" would be called if Scotland were to become independent. Surely the simple answer is that most people, including President Obama, would just keep on calling it \"England\" as they do at present!Willie MacfadyenStirling\u2022 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) provides us with the\u00a0clue. England, Wales and Northern Ireland would be known as the FUK.Christopher GordonWinchester, Hampshire\u2022 I always understood Scotland put the \"Great\" in Great Britain, so without Scotland we'd simply become Britain.John WhiteheadLondon\u2022 The best suggestion yet is surely United Kingdom of Southern Britain and Northern Ireland.Gregor BentonLlantwit Major, South Glamorgan\u2022 John Owen writes that the Welsh name for England is Lloegyr, the foreign lands (Letters, 22 December). The English name \"Welsh\" means exactly the same, \"foreigners\". To this day, the German speakers in Switzerland refer to the French and Italian cantons as the Welschland, the foreign parts.Martin D SternSalford", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "If Scotland did vote for independence\u2026"},{"date": "2011-12-19T14:23:56Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All health bodies in Scotland met their financial targets, but 10 out of 14 NHS boards have reported underlying recurring deficits, Scotland's spending watchdog has said.In an overview of the NHS in Scotland's performance for 2010-11, Audit Scotland says that the service faces pressures from an ageing population, rising public demand and expectations, increased costs and staff reduction. The NHS spent \u00a312bn in 2010-11, with the budget for 2011-12 estimated to be \u00a3232m higher. However, this will be a reduction in real terms due to inflation.According to the report, life expectancy in Scotland has increased and the rate of deaths from coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer has also fallen. Despite this, overall life expectancy in Scotland remains lower than that in most other western European countries and there are still significant health inequalities and long-standing health related problems such as obesity and drug and alcohol misuse.Robert Black, auditor general for Scotland, said: \"At a national level, we are seeing a good picture of the performance of the NHS in Scotland. In 2010-11, all NHS boards met their financial targets for the third year in a row, and there is continued progress against the 'big three' diseases of coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer. However, it is clear that there are building pressures in the system from increased costs and rising expectations and demand.\"Audit Scotland says that the NHS cannot tackle these problems alone and needs to work more effectively with other public bodies to make the best use of resources and increase the focus on preventative services.The watchdog also says that strategies to improve services and make the NHS more efficient and effective will need to include better use of data. The NHS continues to find it difficult to measure productivity due to weaknesses in data and difficulties in linking costs, activity and quality, the report says.Scotland has invested quite heavily on technology such as telehealth over the last year in a bid to support independent living for those with disabilities and age-related illnesses and keep people out of hospitals where possible.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Hospitals and acute care", "Public health", "Workforce", "Data management", "Policy", "Efficiency"], "title": "NHS Scotland faces 'significant challenges,' warns auditor"},{"date": "2011-12-18T22:15:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The weekend election of Johann Lamont to lead the Scottish Labour party is important. But only time and the Scottish National party will decide whether it will matter to anyone except political anoraks. After its debacle in the Holyrood elections, Scottish Labour desperately needs to regain a sense of political purpose and electoral credibility. That, though, is easier to say than to do. Labour remains by some distance the second party in Scotland. But it has long been used to coming a dominant first. Ms Lamont said the right things about the need for change in her acceptance speech on Saturday, but it remains open to doubt how far she and those who elected her really want to go.The manner of Ms Lamont's victory has distinct echoes of Ed Miliband's narrow victory as British Labour leader 15 months ago. Now, as then, the new leader won in an electoral college contest only because of heavy support from the trade unions. Now, as then, the defeated candidate \u2013 Ken Macintosh, like David Miliband \u2013 won a comfortable majority among the party's individual members. The only big difference between the two contests is that Ms Lamont also got a majority among the party's parliamentarians, something Ed Miliband failed to do. Yet the facts remain. She is not the choice of the party grassroots and she would not be leader under the one-member-one-vote systems now used by all Britain's other major parties. It does not help that Labour has failed to publish a full result, including the numbers voting. Labour should look again at its electoral system. It looks unfair and it is unfair.Ms Lamont faces four immediate challenges. The first is to raise her profile. No Labour leader in Scotland has ever been less well known. The second is to start cutting into the SNP's substantial opinion poll lead and to start winning back lost seats in local government again; she does not have much time, since all Scottish local authorities will go to the polls as soon as May. The third is to find a skilful way of combatting the SNP leader Alex Salmond's current mastery of his chosen arenas of political combat at Holyrood and in the television studios: this is more a matter of choosing a different and cannier style of combat rather than trying to outpunch Mr Salmond directly. And the fourth is to work with other parties (and civil society too) to reverse the SNP's current grip on the constitutional agenda, particularly by challenging the nationalists' delaying tactics on the independence referendum plan and by prising Mr Salmond's hands off the devolution alternative too. All of these things can be done \u2013 but Labour has thought that before, and failed. Ms Lamont does not have much time to prove she will be better than her failed predecessors.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Labour", "Politics"], "title": "Labour in Scotland: trying to catch Salmond | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-11-08T23:22:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The turbulence surrounding the leadership of Scotland Yard continued on Tuesday as Tim Godwin announced his departure as deputy commissioner.He becomes the sixth senior figure this year to depart or take extended leave from Britain's biggest police force.Godwin applied to be commissioner of the Met this summer, but was beaten to the post by Bernard Hogan-Howe, who the government had installed as his deputy.Godwin, who has 30 years' service as an officer and is thus entitled to a full police pension, will leave to take up a role in the private sector.He twice served as acting commissioner, and his departure had been expected.But Godwin's retirement will underline the seismic change in the Met's top leadership within a year. Most of those who started the year in the Met's cabinet, its senior management team, are no longer in post. Sir Paul Stephenson's commissionership was ended by the phone-hacking scandal, as was the career of former assistant commissioner John Yates.Ian McPherson is leaving as assistant commissioner for a private sector job, and in April Martin Tiplady left his role as head of human resources. Dick Fedorcio, the Met's public relations chief, is on extended leave pending an IPCC investigation into his involvement in the work carried out for Scotland Yard by the former News of the World deputy editor Neil Wallis. Assistant commissioner Cressida Dick, current head of counter-terrorism, would appear to be the favourite among likely internal candidates to replace Godwin. From outside the Met, possible candidates include Steve Otter, chief of Devon and Cornwall and John Stoddart who heads the Durham force and was asked by Hogan-Howe to review the Met's handling of phone hacking.Other candidates could include Andy Trotter, head of British Transport Police, and John Murphy, who succeeded Hogan-Howe as head of Merseyside and served as his deputy there.Godwin was first acting commissioner when Stephenson was ill, and took the decision to launch a new criminal investigation into phone hacking. During his second stint in charge after Sir Paul's resignation, 22 of London's 32 boroughs were hit by disturbances, with Godwin defending the force's response against criticism of policing of this summer's riots.Godwin started his working life in the merchant navy, and then joined the police service. Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe said: \"I am personally sorry to lose the Deputy Commissioner \u2013 a man of integrity, intellect and humility. I know the officers and staff of the Metropolitan Police will lose a man they love a great deal.\"London mayor Boris Johnson praised Godwin's insistence on sticking to traditional British policing values in the face of the summer riots, as some called for them to be junked and a more 'militaristic' approach to be taken.Johnson said: \"I will always be grateful to him for his advice and action, not least last summer when his faith in common sense traditional British policing was vindicated, the streets reclaimed and public confidence restored.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 9 November 2011 to clarify the circumstances of Dick Fedorcio's extended leave.", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "London", "Police", "UK news", "Bernard Hogan-Howe", "UK riots 2011", "Boris Johnson", "Sir Paul Stephenson"], "title": "Scotland Yard deputy to leave post"},{"date": "2011-12-05T20:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Is Scotland really a long-lost bit of Scandinavia? Geologically speaking it is \u2013 Scotland was once part of the Nordic landmass (albeit several million years ago). Genetically speaking, island Scots have more Norse DNA than any other Britons. Culturally speaking, Norse occupation left Scotland with Viking place names and a Presbyterian share of the Lutheran distaste for pomp, bling, display and status.But England had its own brush with Viking occupation. Trade also linked Scotland to Holland and France. The empire saw wealthy Scots trade tobacco, sugar and slaves across the world. Last century, Irish migrants piled in from the west and the rule of law stretched up from the south. The Scots are a mongrel nation and (usually) proud of it. So why have SNP strategists suggested Scotland could \"join the Nordic circle of nations\" if there's a yes vote in the forthcoming independence referendum?Are the Nordic nations sought out just because they are \"family\", or because they've become the smartest, healthiest and most successful country cousins for miles around?Scotland, like Norway, has important oil, gas, hydro and fish reserves. Scotland, like Sweden, has emerged from half a century of solid Labour voting. Parts of Scotland, like Finland, are struggling with a legacy of bad diet; and Scotland, like Denmark, has fully embraced wind and marine energy.But Scotland, like tiny Iceland (and the mighty United States), was brought to the edge of bankruptcy by its banks. The bailout from Westminster torched Alex Salmond's first attempts to forge links between Scotland, Iceland, Norway and Ireland in the \"Arc of Prosperity\". So this time round the solid, dependable, mainland nations of Scandinavia are in the SNP's sights.The late Labour MP Peter Shore observed in the 1990s that John Smith might not be the ideal UK leader because he was \"too Nordic to understand southern greed\". Since then voting patterns seem to have proved him right. Just like their Nordic neighbours, Scots have created a social democratic consensus in which only the national question creates unusually deeply divided opinion.Scotland has always had a dual identity. Since the Treaty of Union in 1707, its formal position within the UK has defined it as a relatively remote, small, infertile, leftward-leaning, homogenous, northern nation. But looked at differently, Scotland is the most accessible, second most populous, fertile, ethnically diverse and southern part of the Nordic region. Which reality would you rather inhabit?There are, however, many points of divergence. Scotland industrialised earlier and harder than the Nordics, retained feudal land tenure, failed to embrace co-ops and social enterprise, and is governed by massive \"local\" authorities.The Nordic nations are characterised by relatively tiny but powerful municipal councils; high income tax to equalise opportunity with comparatively low business taxes; \"flat\" organisational structures with little hierarchy; social contracts where unions are involved in everyday management decisions; relatively cheap land prices; strong connections with nature, with weekends spent in wooden cottages, not shopping malls; greater gender equality; high levels of investment in research and human capital; almost no private education; and universal, affordable kindergarten with a school starting age of six, not four.Currently Scotland can tick only a couple of these boxes \u2013 but that's precisely why comparison with the nations of the north could be so transformational. If the Nordics are willing to tolerate a limping understudy, the Scottish government could apply for the equivalent of observer status tomorrow.Already the first policy modelled on a Nordic neighbour has rumbled its way through Holyrood. I was a member of the Scottish government's prisons commission which recommended the Finnish community payback model after a fact-finding trip to Helsinki.Since 2009, a thinktank I co-founded, Nordic Horizons, has held seven packed meetings in the Scottish parliament for public and policymakers on the applicability of Nordic models. Labour and SNP MSPs have attended in almost equal numbers.So the ball is rolling. Joining the Nordics would give Scotland the same almost impossible catch-up challenge that now faces Greece, Italy and Portugal in the eurozone. But it is precisely the kind of challenge Scotland needs.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "World news", "Norway", "Sweden", "Finland", "Politics", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "Look north, Scotland | Lesley Riddoch"},{"date": "2011-11-02T09:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "During this year's Scottish Parliament election campaign Alex Salmond, the SNP leader and first minister of Scotland, made a memorable appearance on the BBC's Question Time staged in Liverpool. He boasted that his government had \"eradicated the private sector\" from the NHS in Scotland. Furthermore, Salmond implored the predominantly English audience not to allow the Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and Labour to \"destroy\" their English NHS.The audience gave Salmond's words a warm reception. \"We knew health would come up,\" explained one of the first minister's aides, \"and the point we wanted to make was not that we do things so much better in Scotland, but to make the contrast.\" The aide added: \"That was the key moment \u2013 he [Salmond] spoke to them as if they were Scottish voters.\"Indeed, for a party whose ultimate aim remains 'independence' for Scotland, repeatedly highlighting the differences between public service delivery north and south of the border is simply good politics. At the recent SNP conference in Inverness Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish health secretary, echoed her boss's theme, telling delegates it now seemed \"inevitable that the Tories, aided and abetted by their Liberal [Democrat] partners, will break up the NHS in England.\"The rhetoric may be strident, but Scottish Government ministers at least practice what they preach. Across a whole range of areas, public versus private sector, telehealth, pooling health and social care and streamlining management, the devolved government has adopted a markedly different approach for the NHS in Scotland. And although that health service had long been administered separately from that in England, it was the creation of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 that made this increasing divergence politically possible.The Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition that initially ruled Scotland set the ball rolling by ruling out the establishment of foundation hospitals, then being introduced in England, but the SNP \u2013 in government since 2007 \u2013 has taken a more ostentatiously ideological stance on the health portfolio. \"I have said unequivocally that the NHS in Scotland will remain a public service,\" health secretary Nicola Sturgeon told Guardian Healthcare Network, \"paid for by the public and accountable to the public.\"\"I say that not out of blind ideology, but because I have no doubt that our NHS can and will outperform the privatised experiment south of the border. It is well known that we already have waiting times lower than at any time in the history of the NHS in Scotland. What is less well known is that we are now the only part of the UK where hospital waiting times continue to fall.\"Scottish politics is well known for its fierce competition and unforgiving criticism, but Sturgeon is widely seen \u2013 even by her political opponents \u2013 to have been a safe pair of hands during the past four and a half years. Although not a radical reformer, her orthodox approach to healthcare delivery has the broad approval of Scotland's professional organisations.\"Since devolution there has been a growing divergence in health policy between Scotland and England,\" says Dr Charles Saunders, deputy chairman of the British Medical Association in Scotland. \"This has never been more apparent than it is now with the proposed health reforms in England which could potentially undermine the founding principles of the NHS.\"\u00a0\"In Scotland, we have a government committed to an NHS that is publicly funded and publicly delivered,\" he adds. \"We operate within a system of collaboration and co-operation, while the planned English reforms are very much founded on a principle of competition.\u00a0We do not support this approach. Patients are not products and the NHS is not a 'business' in the commercial sense of the word.\"\u00a0The BMA in Scotland, however, attaches some qualifications to this dichotomy. \"While devolution has allowed us to take a different approach to health policy, it has not cushioned the NHS from some very real threats that are affecting patient services across the UK,\" adds Dr Saunders. This includes providing comprehensive, high-quality services within a shrinking budget, and changes to NHS staff pensions, which would apply across the UK. \"The NHS in Scotland is not perfect and we still face serious challenges with waiting times and patient outcomes. However devolution has given us the means by which to address these challenges in a completely different way to that elsewhere in the UK,\" he concludes.For the time being the Scottish Government prefers to accentuate the positives and eliminate the negatives in healthcare delivery. It is, of course, a means to a radical constitutional end, but with three or four years to go before a much anticipated referendum on independence, the contrast between the NHS north and south of the border looks set to become even more marked.Join our online debate from 1pm today - add questions nowAnalysis: Social care regulators north and south of the border (from the Guardian Social Care Network)This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian Healthcare Network to receive regular emails on NHS innovation.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "England", "Policy"], "title": "Scotland keeps its NHS public"},{"date": "2011-11-01T21:00:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The government needs to show the strong leadership and clear intent of its Scottish counterpart and introduce an alcohol minimum pricing bill if it is serious about calling time on alcohol misuse (Report, 27 October). Here in Co Durham and Darlington, we have a huge problem. A big percentage of our violent crime is alcohol-related and we have some of the highest rates of alcohol-related hospital admissions in the country. Too many people are consuming too much alcohol. Research shows that as price has decreased, consumption has increased \u2013 the average person is drinking almost 11 litres of alcohol a year, more than twice the average consumption in the 1950s.We need more effective solutions. Evidence suggests introduction of a minimum price per unit of alcohol would make alcohol less affordable, thus reducing consumption and in turn the associated harm. A report produced today by a number of harm-reduction organisations \u2013 including Balance, the north-east's alcohol office, contains a survey of more than 600 alcohol products sold in supermarkets across northern England and Scotland, revealing cans of lager for as little as 23p, two-litre bottles of cider for \u00a31.34, a shot of vodka for 28p and a unit of alcohol for just 12p. It's little wonder that a third of north-easterners are drinking above the government's recommended limits on a daily or almost daily basis, that one in five binge-drinks weekly, and that we face the problems we do. Given we are consuming alcohol at a similar level to Scotland, we face the same problems in terms of health and crime and disorder, and we are selling alcohol as cheaply if not more so \u2013 shouldn't we be following Scotland's example? Jon StoddartChief constable, Durham Constabulary", "tags": ["Alcohol", "Society", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Letters: Anti-alcohol lesson from Scotland"},{"date": "2011-12-23T21:00:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "You seem to have conceived the notion that Scotland will vote for independence (Comment, 20 November). Indeed, it is seeming more likely. I don't have a nationalist bone in my body, but if the choice is between belonging to some kind of a weird Daily Maily-coalitiony Englandshire aspiring to be a second Switzerland (nothing against the Swiss, but is one not plenty, and they are good at it), and living next door to a gently declining but essentially civilised Scotland, I will vote for separation. But you also seem to think such a referendum victory means the end of the UK. Not at\u00a0all, unless and until the SNP are voted\u00a0out. They are determined to keep\u00a0her nibs!Drew RatterOllaberry, Shetland\u2022 I'm struggling to find reasons why the Scottish people should have much love for the English but, please guys, if you are going to go, reserve a few million spare passports to enable those of us born to the south and east of the borders to join you. Hard to believe as it may be at times, not all the English are greedy, selfish, anti-European, banker-sympathising, road-raging, Strictly Come Dancing-watching, arrogant public school, weak-chinned wallies.Dr Sam LangridgeBuxted, East Sussex\u2022 John Hodgson (Letters, 22 December) wonders what the \"rump state\" would be called if Scotland were to become independent. Surely the simple answer is that most people, including President Obama, would just keep on calling it \"England\" as they do at present!Willie MacfadyenStirling\u2022 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) provides us with the\u00a0clue. England, Wales and Northern Ireland would be known as the FUK.Christopher GordonWinchester, Hampshire\u2022 I always understood Scotland put the \"Great\" in Great Britain, so without Scotland we'd simply become Britain.John WhiteheadLondon\u2022 The best suggestion yet is surely United Kingdom of Southern Britain and Northern Ireland.Gregor BentonLlantwit Major, South Glamorgan\u2022 John Owen writes that the Welsh name for England is Lloegyr, the foreign lands (Letters, 22 December). The English name \"Welsh\" means exactly the same, \"foreigners\". To this day, the German speakers in Switzerland refer to the French and Italian cantons as the Welschland, the foreign parts.Martin D SternSalford", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "If Scotland did vote for independence\u2026"},{"date": "2011-12-19T14:23:56Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All health bodies in Scotland met their financial targets, but 10 out of 14 NHS boards have reported underlying recurring deficits, Scotland's spending watchdog has said.In an overview of the NHS in Scotland's performance for 2010-11, Audit Scotland says that the service faces pressures from an ageing population, rising public demand and expectations, increased costs and staff reduction. The NHS spent \u00a312bn in 2010-11, with the budget for 2011-12 estimated to be \u00a3232m higher. However, this will be a reduction in real terms due to inflation.According to the report, life expectancy in Scotland has increased and the rate of deaths from coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer has also fallen. Despite this, overall life expectancy in Scotland remains lower than that in most other western European countries and there are still significant health inequalities and long-standing health related problems such as obesity and drug and alcohol misuse.Robert Black, auditor general for Scotland, said: \"At a national level, we are seeing a good picture of the performance of the NHS in Scotland. In 2010-11, all NHS boards met their financial targets for the third year in a row, and there is continued progress against the 'big three' diseases of coronary heart disease, stroke and cancer. However, it is clear that there are building pressures in the system from increased costs and rising expectations and demand.\"Audit Scotland says that the NHS cannot tackle these problems alone and needs to work more effectively with other public bodies to make the best use of resources and increase the focus on preventative services.The watchdog also says that strategies to improve services and make the NHS more efficient and effective will need to include better use of data. The NHS continues to find it difficult to measure productivity due to weaknesses in data and difficulties in linking costs, activity and quality, the report says.Scotland has invested quite heavily on technology such as telehealth over the last year in a bid to support independent living for those with disabilities and age-related illnesses and keep people out of hospitals where possible.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the Guardian healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "Scotland", "Hospitals and acute care", "Public health", "Workforce", "Data management", "Policy", "Efficiency"], "title": "NHS Scotland faces 'significant challenges,' warns auditor"},{"date": "2011-12-18T22:15:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The weekend election of Johann Lamont to lead the Scottish Labour party is important. But only time and the Scottish National party will decide whether it will matter to anyone except political anoraks. After its debacle in the Holyrood elections, Scottish Labour desperately needs to regain a sense of political purpose and electoral credibility. That, though, is easier to say than to do. Labour remains by some distance the second party in Scotland. But it has long been used to coming a dominant first. Ms Lamont said the right things about the need for change in her acceptance speech on Saturday, but it remains open to doubt how far she and those who elected her really want to go.The manner of Ms Lamont's victory has distinct echoes of Ed Miliband's narrow victory as British Labour leader 15 months ago. Now, as then, the new leader won in an electoral college contest only because of heavy support from the trade unions. Now, as then, the defeated candidate \u2013 Ken Macintosh, like David Miliband \u2013 won a comfortable majority among the party's individual members. The only big difference between the two contests is that Ms Lamont also got a majority among the party's parliamentarians, something Ed Miliband failed to do. Yet the facts remain. She is not the choice of the party grassroots and she would not be leader under the one-member-one-vote systems now used by all Britain's other major parties. It does not help that Labour has failed to publish a full result, including the numbers voting. Labour should look again at its electoral system. It looks unfair and it is unfair.Ms Lamont faces four immediate challenges. The first is to raise her profile. No Labour leader in Scotland has ever been less well known. The second is to start cutting into the SNP's substantial opinion poll lead and to start winning back lost seats in local government again; she does not have much time, since all Scottish local authorities will go to the polls as soon as May. The third is to find a skilful way of combatting the SNP leader Alex Salmond's current mastery of his chosen arenas of political combat at Holyrood and in the television studios: this is more a matter of choosing a different and cannier style of combat rather than trying to outpunch Mr Salmond directly. And the fourth is to work with other parties (and civil society too) to reverse the SNP's current grip on the constitutional agenda, particularly by challenging the nationalists' delaying tactics on the independence referendum plan and by prising Mr Salmond's hands off the devolution alternative too. All of these things can be done \u2013 but Labour has thought that before, and failed. Ms Lamont does not have much time to prove she will be better than her failed predecessors.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Labour", "Politics"], "title": "Labour in Scotland: trying to catch Salmond | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-11-08T23:22:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The turbulence surrounding the leadership of Scotland Yard continued on Tuesday as Tim Godwin announced his departure as deputy commissioner.He becomes the sixth senior figure this year to depart or take extended leave from Britain's biggest police force.Godwin applied to be commissioner of the Met this summer, but was beaten to the post by Bernard Hogan-Howe, who the government had installed as his deputy.Godwin, who has 30 years' service as an officer and is thus entitled to a full police pension, will leave to take up a role in the private sector.He twice served as acting commissioner, and his departure had been expected.But Godwin's retirement will underline the seismic change in the Met's top leadership within a year. Most of those who started the year in the Met's cabinet, its senior management team, are no longer in post. Sir Paul Stephenson's commissionership was ended by the phone-hacking scandal, as was the career of former assistant commissioner John Yates.Ian McPherson is leaving as assistant commissioner for a private sector job, and in April Martin Tiplady left his role as head of human resources. Dick Fedorcio, the Met's public relations chief, is on extended leave pending an IPCC investigation into his involvement in the work carried out for Scotland Yard by the former News of the World deputy editor Neil Wallis. Assistant commissioner Cressida Dick, current head of counter-terrorism, would appear to be the favourite among likely internal candidates to replace Godwin. From outside the Met, possible candidates include Steve Otter, chief of Devon and Cornwall and John Stoddart who heads the Durham force and was asked by Hogan-Howe to review the Met's handling of phone hacking.Other candidates could include Andy Trotter, head of British Transport Police, and John Murphy, who succeeded Hogan-Howe as head of Merseyside and served as his deputy there.Godwin was first acting commissioner when Stephenson was ill, and took the decision to launch a new criminal investigation into phone hacking. During his second stint in charge after Sir Paul's resignation, 22 of London's 32 boroughs were hit by disturbances, with Godwin defending the force's response against criticism of policing of this summer's riots.Godwin started his working life in the merchant navy, and then joined the police service. Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe said: \"I am personally sorry to lose the Deputy Commissioner \u2013 a man of integrity, intellect and humility. I know the officers and staff of the Metropolitan Police will lose a man they love a great deal.\"London mayor Boris Johnson praised Godwin's insistence on sticking to traditional British policing values in the face of the summer riots, as some called for them to be junked and a more 'militaristic' approach to be taken.Johnson said: \"I will always be grateful to him for his advice and action, not least last summer when his faith in common sense traditional British policing was vindicated, the streets reclaimed and public confidence restored.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 9 November 2011 to clarify the circumstances of Dick Fedorcio's extended leave.", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "London", "Police", "UK news", "Bernard Hogan-Howe", "UK riots 2011", "Boris Johnson", "Sir Paul Stephenson"], "title": "Scotland Yard deputy to leave post"},{"date": "2011-10-24T07:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It's been a while since Scotland had something resembling a national strategy for public sector ICT. In the early 2000s it had the 21st Century Government Unit and the Modernising Government Fund provided money for workstreams such as data standards, smartcards, a national land and property database, e-procurement and various customer contact initiatives. More recently, although there have been fresh initiatives, there has been no one office to co-ordinate the effort and no national framework for progress.But the Scottish Government is now looking to build a fresh momentum. The Department for Finance, Employment and Sustainable Growth commissioned the McClelland Review of ICT Infrastructure in the Public Sector, received the document in July and published its response document in September. The latter effectively provides the beginnings of a strategy, to be fully developed by spring of next year, to provide a more coherent approach to the development of public sector ICT over the next few years.It is starting from a position in which, according to the McClelland report, the country's public sector has been relatively slow to adopt new technologies. A spokeswoman for the Scottish Government says this reflects a preference for technologies that have already proven they are reliable and cost-effective.\"There has been no history of automatic uptake of the latest technology offering, software release or new hardware offering, nor investment in technology for technology's sake,\" she says. \"New technologies are evaluated on how they can support the public sector and only if a sound business and investment case can be made are these progressed, procured and implemented.\"This means that there are few public sector organisations who would claim to be 'early adopters' of new offerings, but the McClelland review does identify a number of initiatives and projects that are aimed at the opportunities that technology-driven advancement brings.\"She adds that the public sector can increase the take-up of relatively new technologies, but that spending on these has to be set against other demands on tight budgets.Broadband ambitionsWriting in the foreword of the response, John Swinney, the cabinet secretary for finance, employment and sustainable growth, emphasises the importance of integrated and shared deployment of systems, and ties it to the country's wider ambitions for high speed broadband set out in the Digital Strategy for Scotland. This is reflected in two of the key features of the new governance arrangements: a Public Service Reform Board with responsibility for reform, ICT and digital public services, and reporting to it a Public Sector ICT Industry Board involving large suppliers and SMEs.It appears that the reform board will not concentrate solely on ICT but the broader programme of reform, and the same applies for a group of governance boards for central and local government, healthcare, and further and higher education. But overseeing the implementation of McClelland's review will be a significant part of its work.Other priorities for the next year include a mapping exercise on activity around digital public services, with the aim of delivering more services online, development of a prototype of the DirectScot portal and the collection of feedback from the public, and an examination of different delivery mechanisms for digital services. The latter is expected to tie up with the expansion of the Customer First programme.The document also emphasises increasing the use of existing infrastructure and services, such as the Glow national learning intranet for schools and the Central Scottish Government Public Bodies Shared Services Site.There are two stand out features, however. One is the delivery of a high level ICT architecture, with a draft due for April 2012 and an operating framework in June. This will be supported by the creation of a national technical design authority.The other is the creation of a Public Service Network for Scotland. The government is working out the optimum way of achieving a PSN for the country's public services, aiming to create it from existing commercial networks. It has already set up a technical working group with members from all parts of the public sector.It emphasises the PSN's potential to deliver savings, but this raises the question of why the Scottish Government is going for its own network rather than extending the PSN set up by the Cabinet Office. The response suggests that Scotland's ambitions are broader than those underlying the UK PSN.The spokeswoman says: \"In Scotland work is under way to take forward wider next generation broadband ambitions. This includes exploration of the opportunities to aggregate the public sector's wide area network connectivity requirements and any cost benefits.\"Despite this, and the fact that the scale of ICT projects in Scotland does not match that of the big ones in England, there have been efforts to learn from experiences south of the border. The sorry fates of some big Whitehall projects has provided some pertinent lessons, and a Scottish Government team has met with cabinet officials to discuss the reviews of major contracts and to share what they have learned.Another thing shared is a desire to boost the role of SMEs in supporting public sector ICT, although Scotland claims a more convincing record. The spokeswoman points out that since Public Contracts Scotland, an internet portal for contract opportunities, was launched in 2002, SMEs have accounted for 84% of the companies registering and three-quarters of those winning contracts. This contrasts with a UK government aspiration of awarding 25% of contracts to the sector.\"The level of total Scottish public sector spend (by value) that goes directly to SMEs has been over 45% for the past four years,\" the spokeswoman says. \"Just under 60% of that amount is with SMEs based in Scotland.\"There are now plans to push this forward with a new pre-qualification questionnaire, which has been out for consultation since December 2010 and will be rolled out next year, and is aimed at ensuring that the only questions asked are those relevant to the risk involved in a contract. Equally important is that their answers will be loaded into a database and can then provide a reference for further procurements, rather than forcing them to repeat the exercise.As for funding, the Scottish Government is making \u00a350m available to support its broadband roll out in the Next Generation Digital Fund, and is being supported with \u00a325.5m from the EU's structural funds programme. The aim is to combine this with private sector investment to extend Scotland's broadband infrastructure, but it is still unclear how much will go into public sector infrastructure; a detailed roll out plan with funding proposals is expected in March 2012.AbsencesWhile the government broadly accepted McClelland's recommendations, there are a handful that could have had wide implications and are not in its response. The most notable are the creation of an ICT Futures board chaired by the cabinet secretary, and a presumption that major ICT contracts are awarded for a complete sector.It could be argued that the reform and ICT industry boards take the place of the futures board, and the spokeswoman emphasises the extent of the governance arrangements.\"There is strong support from the different parts of the public sector, and we have now established links from those areas to the national governance arrangements,\" she says. \"Each part of the public sector is now considering its sectoral priorities and the supporting strategies required for delivery, linked into our national priorities.\"But the response to the presumption of contracts for a complete sector has met a more cautious response. \"While single sectoral contracts may be feasible where there are common sectoral requirements, it would be less do-able for niche, organisation-specific requirements. However, a prerequisite for success would be the establishment of strong sectoral ICT governance arrangements to complement what's already in place for procurement.\"It is early days, but Scotland has advantages that could help the strategy to make a difference more quickly than in Whitehall's experience. The fact that it is a smaller country with fewer public authorities has traditionally made it easier to get them working together, and to take a coherent approach to change.Also, the response document's focus is on infrastructure, and is not heavily prescriptive about how authorities should shape their own strategies or what services they should provide. It's natural that the provision of that infrastructure should come from the centre, and likely that councils, health authorities, police forces and education bodies will be quite happy to see the government taking a lead.It shows there is an intent for Scotland's public sector to get more from ICT; but it will be up to the councils, police forces, health authorities and education institutions to make sure gets the integrated and shared deployment that the government advocates.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates of news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Government Computing Network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "CIO", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland sets outs its ICT strategy"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-03-28T19:43:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The advent of spring has evidently tempted some British politicians to try out a favourite sport: kite-flying. The past few days have seen a steady stream of stories about the future of Royal Bank of Scotland, the bank that was once the biggest in the world and is now 83% owned by British taxpayers. There have been a string of pieces, on the BBC and across the papers, suggesting that the British government is in \"serious\" talks to sell off a sizable chunk of the RBS to Abu Dhabi.The Treasury has done some dutiful hosing down of the more excited speculation \u2013 but it is notable that the Conservative backbencher Matthew Hancock, formerly chief of staff to George Osborne, and a reliable signatory to party press releases, has popped up to defend a hypothetical sale. With fortuitous timing, Vince Cable has been issuing calls for RBS to be turned into a fully state-owned and -operated bank. Just three months after Richard Branson put up his first Virgin flag on a branch of Northern Rock, after the rushed sale of that mortgage lender, whether RBS remains in state hands, and on what terms, is up for debate.This is not the place to enter into a he-said, she-said measuring up of what will happen to one of the government's biggest assets, into which taxpayers have poured \u00a345bn. Treasury officials have been talking about selling a stake in RBS to a sovereign wealth fund in Asia or the Middle East since Alistair Darling was chancellor. George Osborne is also clear that he wants RBS to go back into private hands; the Whitehall assumption has long been that one of the swiftest ways to achieve that is to get in a big foreign buyer. And last year's bargain-basement sale of Northern Rock to Mr Branson indicates that ministers are not even bothered about making a big loss, as long as it rids them of one more headache. Mr Osborne might not use the same terms as Stephen Hester, but his position is not that far from the RBS chief executive, who declared earlier this month (again, the timing is striking): \"The faster the government starts selling its stake, the better for everyone.\"Nothing is amiss with that last sentence, apart from the fact that it is completely wrong. It is wrong for taxpayers, who will surely stand to lose substantial amounts in any such fire sale. It is wrong for small businesses, as ministers and voters will lose whatever grip they had on directing lending to hard-pressed companies that are facing bankruptcy or big losses thanks to the harsh financing terms extended by high-street banks. And finally, it is wrong for the British economy, which is struggling to emerge from a severe recession caused by banks running wild.The only people who might get some advantage out of the sort of sale suggested this week is the Conservative part of the coalition. It is not hard to imagine the flourish with which Mr Osborne would announce a deal, as evidence that he is getting on with sorting out Labour's legacy and the country's finances. But any such boost would surely be very short-lived, once taxpayers realised how much they were out of pocket. The government bought RBS shares at an average price of 50p. They are now around 28p, so a sale at these levels would mean a \u00a320bn loss. It would have been better had Gordon Brown not paid RBS shareholders anything for stock that was then arguably worthless, but we are where we are.\u00a0Any attempt to do a deal now will lead to a cut-price sale, and rub more salt in taxpayers'\u00a0wounds.As Mr Cable says, there is a strong case for keeping RBS in public hands and directing it to regenerate Britain's wrecked economy. A fully privatised finance sector would not help with that, as evidenced by bankers' behaviour during the boom. At the height of the bubble in 2007, about two-thirds of all bank lending went either into property or to other banks. Labour frontbenchers have sketched out plans for a state investment bank, but has got nowhere near the detail. But rather than invent a lender from scratch, it would make far more sense to use RBS. In this case, the best investment would be a long-term one.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Economic policy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Economics", "Financial sector", "Politics"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: keep it public | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-03-28T19:43:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The advent of spring has evidently tempted some British politicians to try out a favourite sport: kite-flying. The past few days have seen a steady stream of stories about the future of Royal Bank of Scotland, the bank that was once the biggest in the world and is now 83% owned by British taxpayers. There have been a string of pieces, on the BBC and across the papers, suggesting that the British government is in \"serious\" talks to sell off a sizable chunk of the RBS to Abu Dhabi.The Treasury has done some dutiful hosing down of the more excited speculation \u2013 but it is notable that the Conservative backbencher Matthew Hancock, formerly chief of staff to George Osborne, and a reliable signatory to party press releases, has popped up to defend a hypothetical sale. With fortuitous timing, Vince Cable has been issuing calls for RBS to be turned into a fully state-owned and -operated bank. Just three months after Richard Branson put up his first Virgin flag on a branch of Northern Rock, after the rushed sale of that mortgage lender, whether RBS remains in state hands, and on what terms, is up for debate.This is not the place to enter into a he-said, she-said measuring up of what will happen to one of the government's biggest assets, into which taxpayers have poured \u00a345bn. Treasury officials have been talking about selling a stake in RBS to a sovereign wealth fund in Asia or the Middle East since Alistair Darling was chancellor. George Osborne is also clear that he wants RBS to go back into private hands; the Whitehall assumption has long been that one of the swiftest ways to achieve that is to get in a big foreign buyer. And last year's bargain-basement sale of Northern Rock to Mr Branson indicates that ministers are not even bothered about making a big loss, as long as it rids them of one more headache. Mr Osborne might not use the same terms as Stephen Hester, but his position is not that far from the RBS chief executive, who declared earlier this month (again, the timing is striking): \"The faster the government starts selling its stake, the better for everyone.\"Nothing is amiss with that last sentence, apart from the fact that it is completely wrong. It is wrong for taxpayers, who will surely stand to lose substantial amounts in any such fire sale. It is wrong for small businesses, as ministers and voters will lose whatever grip they had on directing lending to hard-pressed companies that are facing bankruptcy or big losses thanks to the harsh financing terms extended by high-street banks. And finally, it is wrong for the British economy, which is struggling to emerge from a severe recession caused by banks running wild.The only people who might get some advantage out of the sort of sale suggested this week is the Conservative part of the coalition. It is not hard to imagine the flourish with which Mr Osborne would announce a deal, as evidence that he is getting on with sorting out Labour's legacy and the country's finances. But any such boost would surely be very short-lived, once taxpayers realised how much they were out of pocket. The government bought RBS shares at an average price of 50p. They are now around 28p, so a sale at these levels would mean a \u00a320bn loss. It would have been better had Gordon Brown not paid RBS shareholders anything for stock that was then arguably worthless, but we are where we are.\u00a0Any attempt to do a deal now will lead to a cut-price sale, and rub more salt in taxpayers'\u00a0wounds.As Mr Cable says, there is a strong case for keeping RBS in public hands and directing it to regenerate Britain's wrecked economy. A fully privatised finance sector would not help with that, as evidenced by bankers' behaviour during the boom. At the height of the bubble in 2007, about two-thirds of all bank lending went either into property or to other banks. Labour frontbenchers have sketched out plans for a state investment bank, but has got nowhere near the detail. But rather than invent a lender from scratch, it would make far more sense to use RBS. In this case, the best investment would be a long-term one.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Economic policy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Economics", "Financial sector", "Politics"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: keep it public | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-07T15:35:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What kind of country would an independent Scotland be? These are some of the key numbers to the debate.It's in the news today as Severin Carrell reports:A vigorous dispute has broken out over Scottish independence after a report claimed that North Sea oil would have made Scotland better off than the rest of the UK last year \u2026 The Scottish government's annual analysis of spending and revenue showed that Scotland had a smaller deficit proportionally than the rest of the UK in 2010-11, but only if its full geographical share of North Sea oil revenues, worth nearly \u00a38.8bn last year, was included.The figures out today are from Government Expenditure and Revenue Scotland 2010-2011, which breaks down spending and revenues north of the border. Whitehall says the report has shortcomings and fails to take the UK financial stability guarantees into account. And recording Scottish data is complicated: not least because of the effects of devolution. Some data is recorded at a UK level, some at a Scotland level. Some of it is referred to as 'non-identifiable' - which means that the UK Treasury can't work out how much is spent specifically in Scotland. Most of the money spent in Scotland comes from taxes raised centrally and although it does have the power to raise the basic rate of income tax by up to 3p - the government there has never used this. In 2010/11 the Scottish government calculated this would be worth \u00a31bn.The Scottish government is not able to borrow on the international markets, but can borrow short-term from the UK central government. Meanwhile, the Scottish government points out:The UK Government is able to borrow to fund public sector expenditure across the UK, including the Scottish Government block grantSo what does the data say? The figures below are a mix of numbers from today's report and the Treasury.The UK's Treasury public spending analysis does give us some regional breakdowns. The chart above shows spending per head for different parts of the UK. Under this analysis (not fully accepted by the Scottish government), Scotland receives more per person than any part of the UK, apart from Northern Ireland, which has expensive security issues.The Scottish government says this is because the public sector in Scotland still includes water and sewage; more spending on education training; a greater reliance on agriculture and public services to go with it. Plus the fact that Scottish universities (which do not have \u00a39,000 tuition fees) also have longer courses.At the moment, money raised from North Sea oil and gas revenues goes into the UK's central government pot. The Scottish government argues that geography is crucial to this and has calculated the effect of North Sea revenues based on the UK's continental shelf, so money from oil drilled in the region mapped here would be allocated to Scotland. It has a much more dramatic effect than just dividing it up among the Scottish population based on its size. Assuming a per capita share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue remains at the same level as the share assuming the exclusion of North Sea revenue, that is, 8.3 per cent in 2010-11. In contrast, under an illustrative geographical share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue increased to 9.6 per cent in the same yearIf you look at the figures this way, it completely changes the Scottish economy. This shows the effect on Scotland's gross domestic product:And this is the effect on public spending if you compare it with or without the 'geographic element\".The latest population data shows Scotland has 5.2m people - up 2.5%, compared to a 3.5% increase in England. In 13 areas, the population has either gone down or stayed static, especially Inverclyde, where it has gone down by 2.8%.Scotland has a slightly higher 'dependent population' than England - 38.2% are either over retirement age or children, compared to 37.4% of the UK. About half of Scotland's population change comes from migration, pretty similar to England.There's more data below. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheetData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish independence", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Scottish politics", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland independence: all the data you need"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-03-28T19:43:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The advent of spring has evidently tempted some British politicians to try out a favourite sport: kite-flying. The past few days have seen a steady stream of stories about the future of Royal Bank of Scotland, the bank that was once the biggest in the world and is now 83% owned by British taxpayers. There have been a string of pieces, on the BBC and across the papers, suggesting that the British government is in \"serious\" talks to sell off a sizable chunk of the RBS to Abu Dhabi.The Treasury has done some dutiful hosing down of the more excited speculation \u2013 but it is notable that the Conservative backbencher Matthew Hancock, formerly chief of staff to George Osborne, and a reliable signatory to party press releases, has popped up to defend a hypothetical sale. With fortuitous timing, Vince Cable has been issuing calls for RBS to be turned into a fully state-owned and -operated bank. Just three months after Richard Branson put up his first Virgin flag on a branch of Northern Rock, after the rushed sale of that mortgage lender, whether RBS remains in state hands, and on what terms, is up for debate.This is not the place to enter into a he-said, she-said measuring up of what will happen to one of the government's biggest assets, into which taxpayers have poured \u00a345bn. Treasury officials have been talking about selling a stake in RBS to a sovereign wealth fund in Asia or the Middle East since Alistair Darling was chancellor. George Osborne is also clear that he wants RBS to go back into private hands; the Whitehall assumption has long been that one of the swiftest ways to achieve that is to get in a big foreign buyer. And last year's bargain-basement sale of Northern Rock to Mr Branson indicates that ministers are not even bothered about making a big loss, as long as it rids them of one more headache. Mr Osborne might not use the same terms as Stephen Hester, but his position is not that far from the RBS chief executive, who declared earlier this month (again, the timing is striking): \"The faster the government starts selling its stake, the better for everyone.\"Nothing is amiss with that last sentence, apart from the fact that it is completely wrong. It is wrong for taxpayers, who will surely stand to lose substantial amounts in any such fire sale. It is wrong for small businesses, as ministers and voters will lose whatever grip they had on directing lending to hard-pressed companies that are facing bankruptcy or big losses thanks to the harsh financing terms extended by high-street banks. And finally, it is wrong for the British economy, which is struggling to emerge from a severe recession caused by banks running wild.The only people who might get some advantage out of the sort of sale suggested this week is the Conservative part of the coalition. It is not hard to imagine the flourish with which Mr Osborne would announce a deal, as evidence that he is getting on with sorting out Labour's legacy and the country's finances. But any such boost would surely be very short-lived, once taxpayers realised how much they were out of pocket. The government bought RBS shares at an average price of 50p. They are now around 28p, so a sale at these levels would mean a \u00a320bn loss. It would have been better had Gordon Brown not paid RBS shareholders anything for stock that was then arguably worthless, but we are where we are.\u00a0Any attempt to do a deal now will lead to a cut-price sale, and rub more salt in taxpayers'\u00a0wounds.As Mr Cable says, there is a strong case for keeping RBS in public hands and directing it to regenerate Britain's wrecked economy. A fully privatised finance sector would not help with that, as evidenced by bankers' behaviour during the boom. At the height of the bubble in 2007, about two-thirds of all bank lending went either into property or to other banks. Labour frontbenchers have sketched out plans for a state investment bank, but has got nowhere near the detail. But rather than invent a lender from scratch, it would make far more sense to use RBS. In this case, the best investment would be a long-term one.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Economic policy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Economics", "Financial sector", "Politics"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: keep it public | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-07T15:35:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What kind of country would an independent Scotland be? These are some of the key numbers to the debate.It's in the news today as Severin Carrell reports:A vigorous dispute has broken out over Scottish independence after a report claimed that North Sea oil would have made Scotland better off than the rest of the UK last year \u2026 The Scottish government's annual analysis of spending and revenue showed that Scotland had a smaller deficit proportionally than the rest of the UK in 2010-11, but only if its full geographical share of North Sea oil revenues, worth nearly \u00a38.8bn last year, was included.The figures out today are from Government Expenditure and Revenue Scotland 2010-2011, which breaks down spending and revenues north of the border. Whitehall says the report has shortcomings and fails to take the UK financial stability guarantees into account. And recording Scottish data is complicated: not least because of the effects of devolution. Some data is recorded at a UK level, some at a Scotland level. Some of it is referred to as 'non-identifiable' - which means that the UK Treasury can't work out how much is spent specifically in Scotland. Most of the money spent in Scotland comes from taxes raised centrally and although it does have the power to raise the basic rate of income tax by up to 3p - the government there has never used this. In 2010/11 the Scottish government calculated this would be worth \u00a31bn.The Scottish government is not able to borrow on the international markets, but can borrow short-term from the UK central government. Meanwhile, the Scottish government points out:The UK Government is able to borrow to fund public sector expenditure across the UK, including the Scottish Government block grantSo what does the data say? The figures below are a mix of numbers from today's report and the Treasury.The UK's Treasury public spending analysis does give us some regional breakdowns. The chart above shows spending per head for different parts of the UK. Under this analysis (not fully accepted by the Scottish government), Scotland receives more per person than any part of the UK, apart from Northern Ireland, which has expensive security issues.The Scottish government says this is because the public sector in Scotland still includes water and sewage; more spending on education training; a greater reliance on agriculture and public services to go with it. Plus the fact that Scottish universities (which do not have \u00a39,000 tuition fees) also have longer courses.At the moment, money raised from North Sea oil and gas revenues goes into the UK's central government pot. The Scottish government argues that geography is crucial to this and has calculated the effect of North Sea revenues based on the UK's continental shelf, so money from oil drilled in the region mapped here would be allocated to Scotland. It has a much more dramatic effect than just dividing it up among the Scottish population based on its size. Assuming a per capita share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue remains at the same level as the share assuming the exclusion of North Sea revenue, that is, 8.3 per cent in 2010-11. In contrast, under an illustrative geographical share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue increased to 9.6 per cent in the same yearIf you look at the figures this way, it completely changes the Scottish economy. This shows the effect on Scotland's gross domestic product:And this is the effect on public spending if you compare it with or without the 'geographic element\".The latest population data shows Scotland has 5.2m people - up 2.5%, compared to a 3.5% increase in England. In 13 areas, the population has either gone down or stayed static, especially Inverclyde, where it has gone down by 2.8%.Scotland has a slightly higher 'dependent population' than England - 38.2% are either over retirement age or children, compared to 37.4% of the UK. About half of Scotland's population change comes from migration, pretty similar to England.There's more data below. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheetData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish independence", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Scottish politics", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland independence: all the data you need"},{"date": "2012-03-03T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish voters could be offered even greater freedoms on taxation and social policy after Labour said it would consider \"radical\" new powers under devolution.A Labour party commission has been set up by the Scottish Labour leader, Johann Lamont, in an attempt to develop an alternative to Alex Salmond's proposals for independence, which are due to be put to a referendum in autumn 2014.Senior party sources admit this process could eventually lead Labour to propose constitutional and political reforms in Westminster and other parts of the UK, to avoid Scotland's new powers creating further tensions with the rest of the UK, or raise questions about the role of Scottish MPs at Westminster.Lamont will tell the Scottish Labour conference in Dundee that the party would consider greater devolution at all levels of government within Scotland, a measure that could lead to substantial local council reform and potentially new local taxes.She will admit that new proposals are essential to prove to disillusioned voters that Labour has fresh ideas to offer after its humiliation in last May's Scottish parliament elections, when \"the party got the kind of beating we deserved.\"She is expected to say that further devolution does not just mean shifting powers from London to Edinburgh. \"If we believe in devolution, we must be more radical than that and ask at which level power should lie if we are to serve the people. Our test is what is in the best interests of the people of Scotland,\" she will tell delegates.Her announcement follows direct attacks on Salmond and the Scottish National party in a speech by UK party leader Ed Miliband on FridayHe accused the first minister of seeking only \"separation, division, isolation\" as the solution for the country's poorest. \"If we are going to create a fairer tax system, we must avoid the race to the bottom on tax rates that separation would import,\" he said. \"And if we believe in the idea of Scotland as a progressive beacon, why would we turn our back on the redistributive union, the United Kingdom?\" He went on: \"Right now, every nation in the UK, every child in poverty, every young person out of work, every small business struggling, needs solidarity, not isolation.\"Labour's commission has been preceded recently by open admissions by Alistair Darling, the former chancellor, and Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, that the Scottish parliament will need new tax powers which could see it raising nearly all the \u00a330bn it spends each year, independently of the Treasury.Lamont will also play down expectations that Labour would propose sweeping tax-raising powers on corporation tax, or devolve significant powers on welfare or social security benefits, in a sideswipe at Salmond's recent demands. A party official said it would have to take a \"cold\" look at the impact of new taxes on the whole of the UK.\"I will not be seduced into the place where which powers you demand is a test of pollitical virility. Where calling for corporation tax to be devolved somehow makes you harder, or more Scottish, or even more progressive,\" she will tell delegates.It is the latest in a series of initiatives to consider giving Scotland greater autonomy than under existing plans, the so-called \"devo plus\" option. As things stand, Holyrood is in line to gain new powers only over income tax rates, which will come into force in about 2016.Repeated opinion polls have shown that more Scottish voters favour devo plus than independence, but Labour has until now resisted promising a significant transfer of power.The Liberal Democrats are now investigating greater devolution in a \"home rule\" commission led by Menzies Campbell.Last month, David Cameron said the Tories could offer further powers too, but only after the referendum.Lamont's commission will be set up later this spring, but unlike the Lib Dems' review, will include only Scottish Labour MPs, MSPs, councillors and trade union leaders. It will not include figures from the voluntary sector, churches or business.Senior Labour figures admit that proposing detailed new powers at this stage could backfire, by helping Salmond to challenge them with a question on enhanced devolution at the referendum. The first minister has insisted he wants the option of putting two questions on the referendum ballot paper, and has resisted pressure from David Cameron and Labour to pose just one \"yes or no\" question on independence on the voting paper.So far, no political party or campaign group has offered to support a second question or to campaign for it but in a speech on Friday, Salmond fed growing suspicions that he would ask it anyway, and force Labour and the Lib Dems to tell voters why they would not campaign for it in the referendum.Speaking at a Times conference on the independence, Salmond said these opinion polls showed that current devolution structures were \"unsustainable\". That presented the UK parties with a dilemma.\"There is a growing need for those parties who are against independence to set out what they actually stand for,\" he said.\"It is something of a paradox that the people most urgently calling for an early referendum are the ones who are currently least equipped to argue their case in any campaign.\"Without a clear statement of what Scotland might look like in future within the union, the case against independence is inevitably based more on a negative view of Scotland's potential than a positive vision of the future.\"", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish politics", "Devolution"], "title": "Labour could offer Scotland new powers"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-03-28T19:43:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The advent of spring has evidently tempted some British politicians to try out a favourite sport: kite-flying. The past few days have seen a steady stream of stories about the future of Royal Bank of Scotland, the bank that was once the biggest in the world and is now 83% owned by British taxpayers. There have been a string of pieces, on the BBC and across the papers, suggesting that the British government is in \"serious\" talks to sell off a sizable chunk of the RBS to Abu Dhabi.The Treasury has done some dutiful hosing down of the more excited speculation \u2013 but it is notable that the Conservative backbencher Matthew Hancock, formerly chief of staff to George Osborne, and a reliable signatory to party press releases, has popped up to defend a hypothetical sale. With fortuitous timing, Vince Cable has been issuing calls for RBS to be turned into a fully state-owned and -operated bank. Just three months after Richard Branson put up his first Virgin flag on a branch of Northern Rock, after the rushed sale of that mortgage lender, whether RBS remains in state hands, and on what terms, is up for debate.This is not the place to enter into a he-said, she-said measuring up of what will happen to one of the government's biggest assets, into which taxpayers have poured \u00a345bn. Treasury officials have been talking about selling a stake in RBS to a sovereign wealth fund in Asia or the Middle East since Alistair Darling was chancellor. George Osborne is also clear that he wants RBS to go back into private hands; the Whitehall assumption has long been that one of the swiftest ways to achieve that is to get in a big foreign buyer. And last year's bargain-basement sale of Northern Rock to Mr Branson indicates that ministers are not even bothered about making a big loss, as long as it rids them of one more headache. Mr Osborne might not use the same terms as Stephen Hester, but his position is not that far from the RBS chief executive, who declared earlier this month (again, the timing is striking): \"The faster the government starts selling its stake, the better for everyone.\"Nothing is amiss with that last sentence, apart from the fact that it is completely wrong. It is wrong for taxpayers, who will surely stand to lose substantial amounts in any such fire sale. It is wrong for small businesses, as ministers and voters will lose whatever grip they had on directing lending to hard-pressed companies that are facing bankruptcy or big losses thanks to the harsh financing terms extended by high-street banks. And finally, it is wrong for the British economy, which is struggling to emerge from a severe recession caused by banks running wild.The only people who might get some advantage out of the sort of sale suggested this week is the Conservative part of the coalition. It is not hard to imagine the flourish with which Mr Osborne would announce a deal, as evidence that he is getting on with sorting out Labour's legacy and the country's finances. But any such boost would surely be very short-lived, once taxpayers realised how much they were out of pocket. The government bought RBS shares at an average price of 50p. They are now around 28p, so a sale at these levels would mean a \u00a320bn loss. It would have been better had Gordon Brown not paid RBS shareholders anything for stock that was then arguably worthless, but we are where we are.\u00a0Any attempt to do a deal now will lead to a cut-price sale, and rub more salt in taxpayers'\u00a0wounds.As Mr Cable says, there is a strong case for keeping RBS in public hands and directing it to regenerate Britain's wrecked economy. A fully privatised finance sector would not help with that, as evidenced by bankers' behaviour during the boom. At the height of the bubble in 2007, about two-thirds of all bank lending went either into property or to other banks. Labour frontbenchers have sketched out plans for a state investment bank, but has got nowhere near the detail. But rather than invent a lender from scratch, it would make far more sense to use RBS. In this case, the best investment would be a long-term one.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Economic policy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Economics", "Financial sector", "Politics"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: keep it public | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-07T15:35:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What kind of country would an independent Scotland be? These are some of the key numbers to the debate.It's in the news today as Severin Carrell reports:A vigorous dispute has broken out over Scottish independence after a report claimed that North Sea oil would have made Scotland better off than the rest of the UK last year \u2026 The Scottish government's annual analysis of spending and revenue showed that Scotland had a smaller deficit proportionally than the rest of the UK in 2010-11, but only if its full geographical share of North Sea oil revenues, worth nearly \u00a38.8bn last year, was included.The figures out today are from Government Expenditure and Revenue Scotland 2010-2011, which breaks down spending and revenues north of the border. Whitehall says the report has shortcomings and fails to take the UK financial stability guarantees into account. And recording Scottish data is complicated: not least because of the effects of devolution. Some data is recorded at a UK level, some at a Scotland level. Some of it is referred to as 'non-identifiable' - which means that the UK Treasury can't work out how much is spent specifically in Scotland. Most of the money spent in Scotland comes from taxes raised centrally and although it does have the power to raise the basic rate of income tax by up to 3p - the government there has never used this. In 2010/11 the Scottish government calculated this would be worth \u00a31bn.The Scottish government is not able to borrow on the international markets, but can borrow short-term from the UK central government. Meanwhile, the Scottish government points out:The UK Government is able to borrow to fund public sector expenditure across the UK, including the Scottish Government block grantSo what does the data say? The figures below are a mix of numbers from today's report and the Treasury.The UK's Treasury public spending analysis does give us some regional breakdowns. The chart above shows spending per head for different parts of the UK. Under this analysis (not fully accepted by the Scottish government), Scotland receives more per person than any part of the UK, apart from Northern Ireland, which has expensive security issues.The Scottish government says this is because the public sector in Scotland still includes water and sewage; more spending on education training; a greater reliance on agriculture and public services to go with it. Plus the fact that Scottish universities (which do not have \u00a39,000 tuition fees) also have longer courses.At the moment, money raised from North Sea oil and gas revenues goes into the UK's central government pot. The Scottish government argues that geography is crucial to this and has calculated the effect of North Sea revenues based on the UK's continental shelf, so money from oil drilled in the region mapped here would be allocated to Scotland. It has a much more dramatic effect than just dividing it up among the Scottish population based on its size. Assuming a per capita share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue remains at the same level as the share assuming the exclusion of North Sea revenue, that is, 8.3 per cent in 2010-11. In contrast, under an illustrative geographical share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue increased to 9.6 per cent in the same yearIf you look at the figures this way, it completely changes the Scottish economy. This shows the effect on Scotland's gross domestic product:And this is the effect on public spending if you compare it with or without the 'geographic element\".The latest population data shows Scotland has 5.2m people - up 2.5%, compared to a 3.5% increase in England. In 13 areas, the population has either gone down or stayed static, especially Inverclyde, where it has gone down by 2.8%.Scotland has a slightly higher 'dependent population' than England - 38.2% are either over retirement age or children, compared to 37.4% of the UK. About half of Scotland's population change comes from migration, pretty similar to England.There's more data below. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheetData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish independence", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Scottish politics", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland independence: all the data you need"},{"date": "2012-03-03T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish voters could be offered even greater freedoms on taxation and social policy after Labour said it would consider \"radical\" new powers under devolution.A Labour party commission has been set up by the Scottish Labour leader, Johann Lamont, in an attempt to develop an alternative to Alex Salmond's proposals for independence, which are due to be put to a referendum in autumn 2014.Senior party sources admit this process could eventually lead Labour to propose constitutional and political reforms in Westminster and other parts of the UK, to avoid Scotland's new powers creating further tensions with the rest of the UK, or raise questions about the role of Scottish MPs at Westminster.Lamont will tell the Scottish Labour conference in Dundee that the party would consider greater devolution at all levels of government within Scotland, a measure that could lead to substantial local council reform and potentially new local taxes.She will admit that new proposals are essential to prove to disillusioned voters that Labour has fresh ideas to offer after its humiliation in last May's Scottish parliament elections, when \"the party got the kind of beating we deserved.\"She is expected to say that further devolution does not just mean shifting powers from London to Edinburgh. \"If we believe in devolution, we must be more radical than that and ask at which level power should lie if we are to serve the people. Our test is what is in the best interests of the people of Scotland,\" she will tell delegates.Her announcement follows direct attacks on Salmond and the Scottish National party in a speech by UK party leader Ed Miliband on FridayHe accused the first minister of seeking only \"separation, division, isolation\" as the solution for the country's poorest. \"If we are going to create a fairer tax system, we must avoid the race to the bottom on tax rates that separation would import,\" he said. \"And if we believe in the idea of Scotland as a progressive beacon, why would we turn our back on the redistributive union, the United Kingdom?\" He went on: \"Right now, every nation in the UK, every child in poverty, every young person out of work, every small business struggling, needs solidarity, not isolation.\"Labour's commission has been preceded recently by open admissions by Alistair Darling, the former chancellor, and Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, that the Scottish parliament will need new tax powers which could see it raising nearly all the \u00a330bn it spends each year, independently of the Treasury.Lamont will also play down expectations that Labour would propose sweeping tax-raising powers on corporation tax, or devolve significant powers on welfare or social security benefits, in a sideswipe at Salmond's recent demands. A party official said it would have to take a \"cold\" look at the impact of new taxes on the whole of the UK.\"I will not be seduced into the place where which powers you demand is a test of pollitical virility. Where calling for corporation tax to be devolved somehow makes you harder, or more Scottish, or even more progressive,\" she will tell delegates.It is the latest in a series of initiatives to consider giving Scotland greater autonomy than under existing plans, the so-called \"devo plus\" option. As things stand, Holyrood is in line to gain new powers only over income tax rates, which will come into force in about 2016.Repeated opinion polls have shown that more Scottish voters favour devo plus than independence, but Labour has until now resisted promising a significant transfer of power.The Liberal Democrats are now investigating greater devolution in a \"home rule\" commission led by Menzies Campbell.Last month, David Cameron said the Tories could offer further powers too, but only after the referendum.Lamont's commission will be set up later this spring, but unlike the Lib Dems' review, will include only Scottish Labour MPs, MSPs, councillors and trade union leaders. It will not include figures from the voluntary sector, churches or business.Senior Labour figures admit that proposing detailed new powers at this stage could backfire, by helping Salmond to challenge them with a question on enhanced devolution at the referendum. The first minister has insisted he wants the option of putting two questions on the referendum ballot paper, and has resisted pressure from David Cameron and Labour to pose just one \"yes or no\" question on independence on the voting paper.So far, no political party or campaign group has offered to support a second question or to campaign for it but in a speech on Friday, Salmond fed growing suspicions that he would ask it anyway, and force Labour and the Lib Dems to tell voters why they would not campaign for it in the referendum.Speaking at a Times conference on the independence, Salmond said these opinion polls showed that current devolution structures were \"unsustainable\". That presented the UK parties with a dilemma.\"There is a growing need for those parties who are against independence to set out what they actually stand for,\" he said.\"It is something of a paradox that the people most urgently calling for an early referendum are the ones who are currently least equipped to argue their case in any campaign.\"Without a clear statement of what Scotland might look like in future within the union, the case against independence is inevitably based more on a negative view of Scotland's potential than a positive vision of the future.\"", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish politics", "Devolution"], "title": "Labour could offer Scotland new powers"},{"date": "2012-03-02T17:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This is a moment of transition for defence policy. The world is going through a period of immense change. New and emerging threats demand new policy responses. Global trends, from climate change to rising new economies, are recasting the global power balance and reshaping the security landscape.This is also a defining moment for Scotland. Scotland has two governments: one Tory, offering austerity of opportunity at home; the other nationalist, offering poverty of influence abroad. Both have defence plans that will limit our ability to achieve our ambitions on the world stage. I want us to expand Scotland's influence, but we can only do so at the heart of Britain with a strong British defence policy.The SNP do have a clear defence policy, which is to support the government's defence review. They have described it as a \"blueprint\". Despite suggestions otherwise, however, there's no evidence to suggest the SNP's position towards Nato has changed. They say they would work with Nato but their policy is to do so from outside the alliance.In Afghanistan I recently met troops from across Scotland. Each of those I met served with pride in the UK armed forces and they served as part of Nato, an organisation born after the second world war and at the beginning of the cold war, which is now finding a new purpose. Nato has a proud record of standing up to oppression, whether in Kosovo answering the world's calls to end the butchery, in Bosnia preventing the slaughter of thousands of European Muslims, or in Afghanistan tackling the Taliban regime. Nato helped in the Pakistan earthquake and Hurricane Katrina relief. These are just a few reasons why countries are queuing up to get into Nato. There is only one mainstream party wanting to leave: the SNP.It is peculiar that the SNP rely on a catch-all comparison that says a separate Scotland will be like Denmark and Norway. Both nations have actively contributed to major Nato operations, including Afghanistan. While the SNP decried Nato's action to save thousands of Muslim Europeans as \"unpardonable folly\", the Danes and Norwegians were fighting bravely alongside allies to protect the lives of innocents.The SNP want the separation debate to ask one question, but there are so many going unanswered. How will Scotland get its way in the world if we leave the UK, the one country with the unique influence of being in the EU, Nato, the Commonwealth and the G8? How does it help the world's poorest people to walk out on the country with the second largest donor of aid money \u2013 co-ordinated by 500 Scots at the Department for International Development head offices in East Kilbride? In the worst financial crisis since the depression, how do we strengthen Scotland's businesses by separating from the third largest economy in Europe? How can we be a force for good by getting out of the UK, the fourth biggest military budget on the planet? We are currently one of only five countries out of 198 in the world with a permanent seat on the UN security council. No country in peacetime history has ever given up this degree of influence and Scotland shouldn't be the first. Separation is a powerful idea, but a 19th-century idea, entirely unsuited to the complexities of influence in the 21st century.Separation threatens one of Scotland's greatest strengths. The Clyde has built ships for 300 years. If Scotland leaves Britain the Clyde and Rosyth would be in a foreign country to the Royal Navy, which has never built a warship in a foreign yard. If the SNP gets its way it would have achieved what the Tories and the emergence of east Asian shipbuilding has failed to do \u2013 sinking Scottish shipbuilding. Under a Labour government no warships will be built abroad: our frigates and destroyers will be built in the four nations of the UK.In today's complex world we need strong defences at home and overseas. That is under threat from the two governments we face. A country of exploration and innovation, of heritage and history, I want Scotland and the UK to have the power to persuade and the ability to act in the world.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Nato", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Defence policy", "Scotland", "Military", "UK news", "World news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland cannot afford to leave Nato | Jim Murphy"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-03-28T19:43:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The advent of spring has evidently tempted some British politicians to try out a favourite sport: kite-flying. The past few days have seen a steady stream of stories about the future of Royal Bank of Scotland, the bank that was once the biggest in the world and is now 83% owned by British taxpayers. There have been a string of pieces, on the BBC and across the papers, suggesting that the British government is in \"serious\" talks to sell off a sizable chunk of the RBS to Abu Dhabi.The Treasury has done some dutiful hosing down of the more excited speculation \u2013 but it is notable that the Conservative backbencher Matthew Hancock, formerly chief of staff to George Osborne, and a reliable signatory to party press releases, has popped up to defend a hypothetical sale. With fortuitous timing, Vince Cable has been issuing calls for RBS to be turned into a fully state-owned and -operated bank. Just three months after Richard Branson put up his first Virgin flag on a branch of Northern Rock, after the rushed sale of that mortgage lender, whether RBS remains in state hands, and on what terms, is up for debate.This is not the place to enter into a he-said, she-said measuring up of what will happen to one of the government's biggest assets, into which taxpayers have poured \u00a345bn. Treasury officials have been talking about selling a stake in RBS to a sovereign wealth fund in Asia or the Middle East since Alistair Darling was chancellor. George Osborne is also clear that he wants RBS to go back into private hands; the Whitehall assumption has long been that one of the swiftest ways to achieve that is to get in a big foreign buyer. And last year's bargain-basement sale of Northern Rock to Mr Branson indicates that ministers are not even bothered about making a big loss, as long as it rids them of one more headache. Mr Osborne might not use the same terms as Stephen Hester, but his position is not that far from the RBS chief executive, who declared earlier this month (again, the timing is striking): \"The faster the government starts selling its stake, the better for everyone.\"Nothing is amiss with that last sentence, apart from the fact that it is completely wrong. It is wrong for taxpayers, who will surely stand to lose substantial amounts in any such fire sale. It is wrong for small businesses, as ministers and voters will lose whatever grip they had on directing lending to hard-pressed companies that are facing bankruptcy or big losses thanks to the harsh financing terms extended by high-street banks. And finally, it is wrong for the British economy, which is struggling to emerge from a severe recession caused by banks running wild.The only people who might get some advantage out of the sort of sale suggested this week is the Conservative part of the coalition. It is not hard to imagine the flourish with which Mr Osborne would announce a deal, as evidence that he is getting on with sorting out Labour's legacy and the country's finances. But any such boost would surely be very short-lived, once taxpayers realised how much they were out of pocket. The government bought RBS shares at an average price of 50p. They are now around 28p, so a sale at these levels would mean a \u00a320bn loss. It would have been better had Gordon Brown not paid RBS shareholders anything for stock that was then arguably worthless, but we are where we are.\u00a0Any attempt to do a deal now will lead to a cut-price sale, and rub more salt in taxpayers'\u00a0wounds.As Mr Cable says, there is a strong case for keeping RBS in public hands and directing it to regenerate Britain's wrecked economy. A fully privatised finance sector would not help with that, as evidenced by bankers' behaviour during the boom. At the height of the bubble in 2007, about two-thirds of all bank lending went either into property or to other banks. Labour frontbenchers have sketched out plans for a state investment bank, but has got nowhere near the detail. But rather than invent a lender from scratch, it would make far more sense to use RBS. In this case, the best investment would be a long-term one.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Economic policy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Economics", "Financial sector", "Politics"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: keep it public | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-07T15:35:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What kind of country would an independent Scotland be? These are some of the key numbers to the debate.It's in the news today as Severin Carrell reports:A vigorous dispute has broken out over Scottish independence after a report claimed that North Sea oil would have made Scotland better off than the rest of the UK last year \u2026 The Scottish government's annual analysis of spending and revenue showed that Scotland had a smaller deficit proportionally than the rest of the UK in 2010-11, but only if its full geographical share of North Sea oil revenues, worth nearly \u00a38.8bn last year, was included.The figures out today are from Government Expenditure and Revenue Scotland 2010-2011, which breaks down spending and revenues north of the border. Whitehall says the report has shortcomings and fails to take the UK financial stability guarantees into account. And recording Scottish data is complicated: not least because of the effects of devolution. Some data is recorded at a UK level, some at a Scotland level. Some of it is referred to as 'non-identifiable' - which means that the UK Treasury can't work out how much is spent specifically in Scotland. Most of the money spent in Scotland comes from taxes raised centrally and although it does have the power to raise the basic rate of income tax by up to 3p - the government there has never used this. In 2010/11 the Scottish government calculated this would be worth \u00a31bn.The Scottish government is not able to borrow on the international markets, but can borrow short-term from the UK central government. Meanwhile, the Scottish government points out:The UK Government is able to borrow to fund public sector expenditure across the UK, including the Scottish Government block grantSo what does the data say? The figures below are a mix of numbers from today's report and the Treasury.The UK's Treasury public spending analysis does give us some regional breakdowns. The chart above shows spending per head for different parts of the UK. Under this analysis (not fully accepted by the Scottish government), Scotland receives more per person than any part of the UK, apart from Northern Ireland, which has expensive security issues.The Scottish government says this is because the public sector in Scotland still includes water and sewage; more spending on education training; a greater reliance on agriculture and public services to go with it. Plus the fact that Scottish universities (which do not have \u00a39,000 tuition fees) also have longer courses.At the moment, money raised from North Sea oil and gas revenues goes into the UK's central government pot. The Scottish government argues that geography is crucial to this and has calculated the effect of North Sea revenues based on the UK's continental shelf, so money from oil drilled in the region mapped here would be allocated to Scotland. It has a much more dramatic effect than just dividing it up among the Scottish population based on its size. Assuming a per capita share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue remains at the same level as the share assuming the exclusion of North Sea revenue, that is, 8.3 per cent in 2010-11. In contrast, under an illustrative geographical share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue increased to 9.6 per cent in the same yearIf you look at the figures this way, it completely changes the Scottish economy. This shows the effect on Scotland's gross domestic product:And this is the effect on public spending if you compare it with or without the 'geographic element\".The latest population data shows Scotland has 5.2m people - up 2.5%, compared to a 3.5% increase in England. In 13 areas, the population has either gone down or stayed static, especially Inverclyde, where it has gone down by 2.8%.Scotland has a slightly higher 'dependent population' than England - 38.2% are either over retirement age or children, compared to 37.4% of the UK. About half of Scotland's population change comes from migration, pretty similar to England.There's more data below. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheetData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish independence", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Scottish politics", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland independence: all the data you need"},{"date": "2012-03-03T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish voters could be offered even greater freedoms on taxation and social policy after Labour said it would consider \"radical\" new powers under devolution.A Labour party commission has been set up by the Scottish Labour leader, Johann Lamont, in an attempt to develop an alternative to Alex Salmond's proposals for independence, which are due to be put to a referendum in autumn 2014.Senior party sources admit this process could eventually lead Labour to propose constitutional and political reforms in Westminster and other parts of the UK, to avoid Scotland's new powers creating further tensions with the rest of the UK, or raise questions about the role of Scottish MPs at Westminster.Lamont will tell the Scottish Labour conference in Dundee that the party would consider greater devolution at all levels of government within Scotland, a measure that could lead to substantial local council reform and potentially new local taxes.She will admit that new proposals are essential to prove to disillusioned voters that Labour has fresh ideas to offer after its humiliation in last May's Scottish parliament elections, when \"the party got the kind of beating we deserved.\"She is expected to say that further devolution does not just mean shifting powers from London to Edinburgh. \"If we believe in devolution, we must be more radical than that and ask at which level power should lie if we are to serve the people. Our test is what is in the best interests of the people of Scotland,\" she will tell delegates.Her announcement follows direct attacks on Salmond and the Scottish National party in a speech by UK party leader Ed Miliband on FridayHe accused the first minister of seeking only \"separation, division, isolation\" as the solution for the country's poorest. \"If we are going to create a fairer tax system, we must avoid the race to the bottom on tax rates that separation would import,\" he said. \"And if we believe in the idea of Scotland as a progressive beacon, why would we turn our back on the redistributive union, the United Kingdom?\" He went on: \"Right now, every nation in the UK, every child in poverty, every young person out of work, every small business struggling, needs solidarity, not isolation.\"Labour's commission has been preceded recently by open admissions by Alistair Darling, the former chancellor, and Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, that the Scottish parliament will need new tax powers which could see it raising nearly all the \u00a330bn it spends each year, independently of the Treasury.Lamont will also play down expectations that Labour would propose sweeping tax-raising powers on corporation tax, or devolve significant powers on welfare or social security benefits, in a sideswipe at Salmond's recent demands. A party official said it would have to take a \"cold\" look at the impact of new taxes on the whole of the UK.\"I will not be seduced into the place where which powers you demand is a test of pollitical virility. Where calling for corporation tax to be devolved somehow makes you harder, or more Scottish, or even more progressive,\" she will tell delegates.It is the latest in a series of initiatives to consider giving Scotland greater autonomy than under existing plans, the so-called \"devo plus\" option. As things stand, Holyrood is in line to gain new powers only over income tax rates, which will come into force in about 2016.Repeated opinion polls have shown that more Scottish voters favour devo plus than independence, but Labour has until now resisted promising a significant transfer of power.The Liberal Democrats are now investigating greater devolution in a \"home rule\" commission led by Menzies Campbell.Last month, David Cameron said the Tories could offer further powers too, but only after the referendum.Lamont's commission will be set up later this spring, but unlike the Lib Dems' review, will include only Scottish Labour MPs, MSPs, councillors and trade union leaders. It will not include figures from the voluntary sector, churches or business.Senior Labour figures admit that proposing detailed new powers at this stage could backfire, by helping Salmond to challenge them with a question on enhanced devolution at the referendum. The first minister has insisted he wants the option of putting two questions on the referendum ballot paper, and has resisted pressure from David Cameron and Labour to pose just one \"yes or no\" question on independence on the voting paper.So far, no political party or campaign group has offered to support a second question or to campaign for it but in a speech on Friday, Salmond fed growing suspicions that he would ask it anyway, and force Labour and the Lib Dems to tell voters why they would not campaign for it in the referendum.Speaking at a Times conference on the independence, Salmond said these opinion polls showed that current devolution structures were \"unsustainable\". That presented the UK parties with a dilemma.\"There is a growing need for those parties who are against independence to set out what they actually stand for,\" he said.\"It is something of a paradox that the people most urgently calling for an early referendum are the ones who are currently least equipped to argue their case in any campaign.\"Without a clear statement of what Scotland might look like in future within the union, the case against independence is inevitably based more on a negative view of Scotland's potential than a positive vision of the future.\"", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish politics", "Devolution"], "title": "Labour could offer Scotland new powers"},{"date": "2012-03-02T17:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This is a moment of transition for defence policy. The world is going through a period of immense change. New and emerging threats demand new policy responses. Global trends, from climate change to rising new economies, are recasting the global power balance and reshaping the security landscape.This is also a defining moment for Scotland. Scotland has two governments: one Tory, offering austerity of opportunity at home; the other nationalist, offering poverty of influence abroad. Both have defence plans that will limit our ability to achieve our ambitions on the world stage. I want us to expand Scotland's influence, but we can only do so at the heart of Britain with a strong British defence policy.The SNP do have a clear defence policy, which is to support the government's defence review. They have described it as a \"blueprint\". Despite suggestions otherwise, however, there's no evidence to suggest the SNP's position towards Nato has changed. They say they would work with Nato but their policy is to do so from outside the alliance.In Afghanistan I recently met troops from across Scotland. Each of those I met served with pride in the UK armed forces and they served as part of Nato, an organisation born after the second world war and at the beginning of the cold war, which is now finding a new purpose. Nato has a proud record of standing up to oppression, whether in Kosovo answering the world's calls to end the butchery, in Bosnia preventing the slaughter of thousands of European Muslims, or in Afghanistan tackling the Taliban regime. Nato helped in the Pakistan earthquake and Hurricane Katrina relief. These are just a few reasons why countries are queuing up to get into Nato. There is only one mainstream party wanting to leave: the SNP.It is peculiar that the SNP rely on a catch-all comparison that says a separate Scotland will be like Denmark and Norway. Both nations have actively contributed to major Nato operations, including Afghanistan. While the SNP decried Nato's action to save thousands of Muslim Europeans as \"unpardonable folly\", the Danes and Norwegians were fighting bravely alongside allies to protect the lives of innocents.The SNP want the separation debate to ask one question, but there are so many going unanswered. How will Scotland get its way in the world if we leave the UK, the one country with the unique influence of being in the EU, Nato, the Commonwealth and the G8? How does it help the world's poorest people to walk out on the country with the second largest donor of aid money \u2013 co-ordinated by 500 Scots at the Department for International Development head offices in East Kilbride? In the worst financial crisis since the depression, how do we strengthen Scotland's businesses by separating from the third largest economy in Europe? How can we be a force for good by getting out of the UK, the fourth biggest military budget on the planet? We are currently one of only five countries out of 198 in the world with a permanent seat on the UN security council. No country in peacetime history has ever given up this degree of influence and Scotland shouldn't be the first. Separation is a powerful idea, but a 19th-century idea, entirely unsuited to the complexities of influence in the 21st century.Separation threatens one of Scotland's greatest strengths. The Clyde has built ships for 300 years. If Scotland leaves Britain the Clyde and Rosyth would be in a foreign country to the Royal Navy, which has never built a warship in a foreign yard. If the SNP gets its way it would have achieved what the Tories and the emergence of east Asian shipbuilding has failed to do \u2013 sinking Scottish shipbuilding. Under a Labour government no warships will be built abroad: our frigates and destroyers will be built in the four nations of the UK.In today's complex world we need strong defences at home and overseas. That is under threat from the two governments we face. A country of exploration and innovation, of heritage and history, I want Scotland and the UK to have the power to persuade and the ability to act in the world.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Nato", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Defence policy", "Scotland", "Military", "UK news", "World news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland cannot afford to leave Nato | Jim Murphy"},{"date": "2012-03-01T07:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "One of the most heated arguments about Scotland's future in the UK and Alex Salmond's independence plans will centre on its defence. For nationalists, the presence of the Trident nuclear weapons fleet on the Clyde and the UK's invasion of Iraq, both seen as deeply unpopular in Scotland, are causes of huge grievance.For nationalists, both are totemic examples of Scotland's wishes being swept aside to serve London's interests.For Salmond's opponents, the greater security and shared burden being part of the UK's armed forces and Nato is one of the strongest reasons for preserving the United Kingdom; the armed forces helps bind the UK together. They believe that defence is one of the Scottish National party's weakest cards.It is one of the most difficult policy areas for the SNP: it has to wrestle with whether to stay in Nato and by implication accept that its partners will field nuclear weapons; whether it should seek to share defence with the rest of the UK (rUK); how long it would allow Trident to remain on the Clyde; and, most central of all, define what is Scotland trying to defend, why and against whom?The argument roared into life in January after Phillip Hammond, the UK defence secretary, described the Scottish National party's plans to base a new Scottish defence force on the existing Scottish regiments, with one air base and a naval base, as \"laughable\".In a BBC Radio 4 interview, he said: The UK armed forces are a highly integrated and very sophisticated fighting force. The idea that you can sort of break off a little bit, like a square on a chocolate bar and that would be the bit that went north of the Border, is frankly laughable.In a quick rebuttal, again on the BBC, Alex Salmond retorted that: The great argument in favour of having a Scottish defence force is two-fold - one, you wouldn't have to have the biggest concentration of nuclear weapons in western Europe situated in Scotland, which many people support the removal, and secondly of course, we'd have the right to decide whether or not to participate in international engagements.Salmond said the UK government's defence review had provided the blueprint for an SDF: The configuration of the army in Scotland, the mobile brigade, which is the outcome of the defence review, looks exactly like the configuration you'd want for a Scottish defence force - so that's one naval base, one aircraft base and a mobile armed brigade.This is based on the MoD's plans to base an armoured brigade in Scotland \u2013 thought to be the 7th Armoured Brigade famously known as \"The Desert Rats\" - before it then moves the headquarters of 1st Armoured Division from Germany by 2020. It incorporates the Highlanders battalion of the Royal Regiment of Scotland, the Royal Scottish Dragoon Guards tank regiment, the Mercian armoured regiment, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers light infantry, signallers and a reconnaissance regiment.At other times recently, however, the SNP has said it would take control of the five battalion strong Royal Regiment of Scotland, the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards tank regiment and the Scots Guards. In its most recent document released in January, Your Scotland, Your Future the SNP went much further, promising that \"we'll also restore the historic Scottish regiments\", without naming those it means. Several recent regiments have been lost through amalgamation or closure: the Royal Scots, King's Own Scottish Borderers and the Cameron Highlanders have gone in the last two decades.But these broad statements have came under intense attack from former defence chiefs. One major criticism is that simply grabbing what is currently in Scotland or \"belongs\" to Scotland, and making do is starting at the wrong end of the problem.Professor Malcolm Chalmers, the director of UK Defence Policy Studies at the Royal United Services Institute, and a UK government adviser, argues that Scotland first needs to know what it needs and why: The separation of forces into two distinct entities would involve significant transitional costs - on new administrative structures, duplicated support and training capabilities, and probably also some new infrastructure and equipment.Beyond an initial period of disruption, though, an independent Scotland would have a wide range of defence options. If it were to follow Denmark and Norway into Nato membership, it would find it easier to gain the benefits of defence sharing, but would be expected to pay its way. A Scotland in Nato would be expected to have forces that could contribute - in ways proportional to its size - to future operations like Libya and Afghanistan. But it would have a range of choices on how to do so.A decision to stay out of Nato - like the Republic of Ireland - would be less costly in defence terms. Scotland could focus on the risks that threaten its territory directly, make it clear that it was not interested in keeping major war-fighting assets, and cut its defence budget to Irish levels. This option, however, would be difficult to sell to Scotland's NATO neighbours - including the UK - who would see it as an attempt to free-ride on their protection. A decision not to join NATO would be seen as a signal that the new Scotland was stepping out of the European mainstream (not withstanding the Irish exception). It would raise alarm bells in both the US and in Europe, and make it more difficult to maintain good relations, and technical cooperation, with UK armed forces. It might also complicate Scotland's application for EU membership, the success of which is critical for economic stability. Senior SNP sources insist they are alive to these issues. Deeply frustrated by the spat earlier this year, they insist that no formal defence proposals are yet available to debate or attack. The Scottish government is essentially staging its own internal defence review, drafting a detailed policy on the purpose and shape of a Scottish defence force for publication in November 2013.Angus Robertson, the SNP's defence spokesman at Westminster, has visited Norway and Denmark to study their defence policies and tour their naval bases. This gives a strong hint where the SNP's defence strategy is heading: looking at the Arctic and the \"High North\" Atlantic, a region which will be the focus of intense competition with the Russians for mineral and energy resources, as the ice cap recedes, as the main focus for a future defence force.But at the core is this question: what would Scotland need to defend and why? Apart from civil defence, its landmass and coastal waters, there are the North Sea oil and gas platforms which currently provide the UK up to \u00a312bn a year in revenues, and future oil fields west of Shetland on the Atlantic frontier. It would have to include offshore wind and marine energy plants, and Scotland's substantial fishing grounds. At present, the Scottish government already operates four unarmed fishery protection vessels. But because of the UK defence cuts, there are no maritime patrol aircraft. Scotland would also likely need a dedicated special forces for oil and green energy fields.The best available Scottish government position on defence was set out in its independence white paper Your Scotland, Your Voice in September 2009. It was extremely short on detail on defence, but said there were four core objects:  to uphold national sovereignty and secure the territorial integrity of the country;to secure internal security in the face of threats and risksin partnership with other nations; to help to prevent and resolve conflicts and war anywhere in the world in partnership with other nations;to further peaceful development in the world with due respect for human rights. But, as Chalmers argues, if Scotland were to join Nato or take part in a larger regional defence of the north east Atlantic and European Arctic waters, it would need to offer more than just a territorial defence force; it would need some form of expeditionary forces, air power and naval forces. So: what would an independent Scotland need for that, and where would they come from? Would the Scottish government expect to get a pro rata share of the UK's existing forces, and cherry-pick those ships and planes and land forces which suited its defence strategy, but not the UK's and Nato's?One immediate question is how much Scotland could and should spend on defence. Chalmers, a Scot by birth and upbringing, has worked out a notional cost, again based on Denmark and Norway.He suggests this:Denmark and Norway spent 1.4% and 1.5%, respectively, of GDP on defence in 2010. If Scotland had done the same - spending 1.45% of GDP on defence - it would have had an 2010 defence budget of \u00a31.7 billion, excluding extra-regio GDP, or \u00a32.1 billion, if one includes the estimated share of offshore GDP.This is considerably less than the \u00a33.3bn which the SNP estimates Scottish taxpayers currently contribute to defence spending. The last regional break-down for defence within the UK found that in 2007/08, the MoD spent \u00a31.57bn directly in Scotland. That figure is very likely to include the costs of running the Clyde Submarine base at Faslane and Coulport west of Glasgow where Trident is based. It is also where all the UK's new Astute nuclear hunter killer submarines will be based with remaining Trafalgar class nuclear submarines from 2017. And Faslane and Coulport are the trickiest issues of all for the SNP, military specialists believe. Becoming a non-nuclear weapons state is, said one SNP source, a \"red line\", non-negotiable issue. But removing and redeploying Trident will be very costly and laborious; it would require a long transition period and extensive decommissioning and decontamination work. Coulport has stored nuclear warheads since the 1960s. That presupposes the rUK has another base to send them to, but crucially, it also presupposes the UK government, Nato and the US would agree to removing Trident if Scotland wanted to join Nato. Several Scottish defence analysts believe they would not, so could the Scottish government be forced to compromise, as the price of a future alliance?12.25pm: There are several key issues to tackle for the SNP and Scottish government, on the equipment and forces that a putative Scottish defence force would need, and on its membership or links to Nato. Many defence analysts believe membership of Nato will be essential.A central problem for the SNP being raised by Angus Robertson, the SNP defence spokesman at Westminster, is that the forces, bases and equipment physically present in Scotland are not suitable for an SDF or for meeting Scotland's likely defence needs. Successive UK government's have heavily trimmed back on once substantial military assets in Scotland after the end of the Cold war and the collapse of the Soviet Union.That process is continuing in the current defence cuts: many services are being condensed, cut back and focused in England, an issue raised this morning by sneakyboy and others. The MoD insists this is more efficient financially, that the UK's defence is a collective effort, and that Scotland is no longer geographically on the Cold war front line.In an STV Scotland Tonight special on defence on Wednesday evening, Robertson argued that the scrapping of the UK's Nimrod maritime patrol fleet and a widely-rumoured decision to move the Royal Marines 45 Commando from Arbroath to England, left Scotland unable to adequately protect North Sea oil rigs. An independent Scotland could have to buy its own.He also said Scotland no longer had any helicopters based there. Added to this, military sources have told the Guardian that the five battalion Royal Regiment of Scotland is likely to lose at least one more battalion, and possibly two, in the next round of defence cuts.The Royal Scots Dragoon Guards tank regiment \u2013 a core part of the 7th Armoured Brigade that Salmond believes would be the basis of an SDF - is also said to be very vulnerable: defence chiefs are expected to cut one of the UK's two surviving tank regiments. In modern, highly mobile expeditionary warfare based on force projection, tanks are no longer essential.On Scotland Tonight, Robertson said:As we know in Scotland to our cost, the UK has scrapped the entire [marine patrol aircraft] fleet, those were the Nimrod aircraft based at RAF Kinloss, so now the UK has none of the aircraft whatsoever. The Irish republic does, Norway does, Denmark does, the UK does not and that's a capability gap that we in Scotland will have to look at...The UK is not adequately protecting our maritime resources at the present time. [How] should we decide to deal with this gap? I think the best way to deal with it is to be able to make these decisions as close to home as possible. At the present time, Scottish taxpayers contribute over \u00a33bn a year to the MoD in Whitehall but the government in London decides to only spend \u00a32bn of that contribution in Scotland.UK government officials and ministers believe the regional spending issue is fatuous because the UK's defence is collective, and most military operations happen overseas; they also insist that with the UK spending deficit, financial efficiency is crucial.On Nato membership, Robertson is very carefully not ruling out continued membership of Nato. As Dr Philips O'Brien, of Glasgow university, pointed out on the programme, the country which Robertson is so keen to work with, Norway, regards Nato membership as absolutely essential. Norway is an example of a country which is desperate to stay within Nato because of the defence of its old fields. In fact Norway believes Nato is the foundation of its defence because it has oil fields, and it's quite worried about Russia [There is] no way that Norway would somehow make special exceptions to defend a non-Nato Scotland.Robertson will publicly confirm that working with Nato is part of current SNP policy. He said that an independent Scotland would want to participate in UN-sanctioned operations overseas alongside Nato. He cited non-Nato Sweden flying sorties in the Libyan conflict.The SNP has said we're keen to work with our European colleagues through the common security and defence policy [of the EU] and indeed work within Nato's Partnership for Peace. We're quite content to work with Nato. If one looks at recent operations which we think were justified in international law, the UN thought them important, that would be the most recent example of that with Libya...But asked explicitly about whether an independent Scotland would remain in Nato, despite the SNP's current policy to withdraw from it, Robertson did not say no: Preparations are being made for the prospectus which will be put before the Scottish people and unlike decisions that have been made in Westminster, this happens in an orderly process.Our colleagues in the Scottish government are looking at the policy options for Scotland; they're looking at the challenges that one faces; one has to look at the options that are before you and then you move on to producing a prospectus which will inform the debate in Scotland in the run-up to the referendum.2.20pm: Another question has emerged about whether the Scots currently serving in the UK armed forces would want to transfer. Raised by StuartCrawford, a former SNP Holyrood candidate, military officer and now security adviser, this issue was also picked up in last night's Scotland Tonight show by Gen Sir Mike Jackson, former head of the British Army.Jackson, who described himself in the interview as a unionist, said:There is a sense I have heard from some quarters that for example the Royal Regiment of Scotland transfers across from the British Army to an independent Scottish army. Well institutionally that might be possible but at the end of the day, the Royal Regiment of Scotland is those soldiers who actually form it. Now, are they going to be compelled to move and if they're not compelled, I suspect many, probably the large majority, will choose to stay within the British army, because that's where they will get the opportunities they sought when they joined up.We asked former SNP defence spokesman and army Lieutenant Colonel Crawford to expand on this. He said:All of us in the military community are saying is that no-one has asked the Scottish soldiers if they would want to transfer; all of us collectively believe that few of them would want to. No-one knows what the Scottish defence force is for.Crawford argues that this situation could change if and when the Scottish government produces a much clearer blueprint and purpose for an SDF, and particularly if Scotland remains in Nato. For their part, Robertson and Salmond have said they believe Scottish soldiers who wanted to stay in the British army, RAF or Royal Navy would quite easily be able to stay in it; there are numerous nationalities in the UK armed forces.But Col Clive Fairweather, a former commander in the SAS, in the British Army in Germany and a former HM Chief Inspector of Prisons in Scotland, is far more cutting. A consultancy colleague of Crawford's, he believes just doing UN peace-keeping, similar to Ireland's role, will not attract the right recruits:If it's a 'blue hat' UN force only one would find plenty of geeks wanting to join but I don't think you will find many real soldiers wanting to do it; if we were to join Nato, they would find Scottish defence forces were for real.Second in command of 22 SAS, who helped end the Iranian embassy siege in 1980, Fairweather also contradicts Robertson's assertion that losing 45 Commando from Arbroath is significant for defending oil rigs:If you really want the rigs protected, 45 Commando are only one part of it. You really need special forces; you need people trained to get onto rigs from the sea and from the air. While the Marines are better than lorried infantry, my understanding is you would normally be looking at specialists like the Special Boat Squadron or SAS. Scotland will need it's own SAS or equivalent, plus the ships and helicopters that go with it.Robertson retorted to Jackson's point:Normal countries make decisions about their own defence and foreign policy. It would mean we make decisions about how much money we spend, the regiments that we keep, the facilities we keep, how we work with our neighbours and friends.3.57pm: An independent Scotland could apply to join Nato and is likely to seek close military ties with Norway and Denmark to help patrol the northern Atlantic, in a dramatic shake up of the Scottish National party's defence strategy.Forging a close working relationship with both Scandinavian states is one of the key issues being studied as part of the Scottish government's proposals for a new Scottish defence force, due to be published in November 2013 in its \"prospectus\" for independence, SNP sources have said in response to the Reality Check series on independence.The Reality Check study into defending an independent Scotland has thrown up significant questions about whether the SNP can or will maintain its long-standing policy of rejecting full membership of Nato, the multinational alliance central to the UK's defence policy.It is understood that policy could now be scrapped by the Scottish government.Largely because of its abhorrence for nuclear weapons, and overseas interventions such as Kosovo and Iraq, the SNP's current position is it will only join Nato's looser Partnership for Peace confederation which falls short of full Nato membership.Yet as Alex Salmond leads an intensive policy review in the run-up to the independence referendum, the SNP is now clear it wants to maintain a close military relationship with the rest of the UK after independence, alongside a joint strategy for the \"high north\" and Arctic regions with Norway and Denmark, both states whose defence strategies are founded on Nato membership.Party sources suggest that this paradox is leading the Scottish government to reconsider Nato membership, a point raised by dadsarmy.Angus Robertson, the SNP's defence spokesman at Westminster, refused to rule that out in an interview on STV's Scotland Tonight programme on Wednesday.Asked about this, Robertson said: Preparations are being made for the prospectus which will be put before the Scottish people and unlike decisions that have been made in Westminster, this happens in an orderly process.Our colleagues in the Scottish government are looking at the policy options for Scotland; they're looking at the challenges that one faces; one has to look at the options that are before you and then you move on to producing a prospectus which will inform the debate in Scotland in the run-up to the referendum.A switch in stance on Nato will strengthen the belief that Salmond is preparing to offer Scottish voters a version of \"indy lite\" at independence: where Scotland would retain the Queen, sterling and the Bank of England, continue with the BBC in some form, and potentially share a foreign policy with the rest of the UK.The Scottish government and SNP are adamant that an independent Scotland would ask for Trident nuclear submarines to be withdrawn from the Clyde, a key point raised by many on Reality Check including Doonfooter.However, that could take some years because of the scale and difficulties to dismantling its nuclear facilities and finding new bases elsewhere in the UK, a point made by Dorice. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish independence", "Defence policy"], "title": "How would an independent Scotland defend itself?"},{"date": "2012-02-23T09:00:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's procurement body for local authorities has set up a framework for telecare services.Scotland Excel has said that all 32 Scottish councils, plus two of the country's largest housing associations, have confirmed they will use the contract.Six suppliers have won places: Chubb Systems, ICare, Jontek, Possum, Tunstall Healthcare and Tynetec. The contract will be open initially until the end of December 2013, but could be extended by a further year.The organisation said the key objective is to enable older people, those with disabilities or mental health problems and other vulnerable people to live as independently as possible in their own homes.It also aims to help remove some longstanding interoperability issues and provide more flexibility in the choice of equipment.The forecast spend for each participating local authority is about \u00a33.4m a year, equating to \u00a310.2m over the term of the framework, including the extension period.Scotland Excel said that a price comparison exercise showed annual savings achieved through the framework across local authorities will range between just below 1% up to 15.4%. The average saving will be 8.8%.Its telecare procurement steering group examined a framework agreement offered by the Government Procurement Service for telecare, but felt that it was not ideally suited to meet the needs of Scottish local authorities and decided to run its own procurement.\"Technology and telecare products will play an increasing role in promoting such independence and reduce the reliance on traditional services and the costs associated with these,\" said Scotland Excel.This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Applications", "Hardware", "Local government", "Devolved government", "Health"], "title": "Scotland launches telecare framework"},{"date": "2012-02-17T22:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Until the recent cold snap, it had been a mild winter \u2013 remember the daffodils in December? For some this was no doubt a good thing; for me, it didn't feel right. Like many British people, I need a protracted season of cold, miserable winter weather in order to see me through the protracted, miserable summer.Then the solution appeared to me. A headline in the local paper about a man who had fallen 60m down Ben Nevis, and survived. Now there was an individual determined to do something about \"failed winter syndrome\". You head north.The Ice Factor in Kinlochleven, 20 miles south of Fort William, was offering what I needed. A two-day winter mountaineering experience, with the first day on its indoor ice wall, the second on the hills.As I drove up from Glasgow, the Loch Lomond hills looked voluptuously inviting \u2013 white-capped and basking in sunshine \u2013 but when I reached the Ice Factor the forecast was more promising: snow falling on higher ground, turning to sleet with considerable avalanche probability. The next day, scheduled to be my day on the hills, was summarised in a single phrase, \"No sunshine.\" I could not have asked for more.Built inside the grand Edwardian shell of an aluminium smelter, the Ice Factor is one of those marvellous monuments to one man's eccentric determination. Jamie Smith was a keen winter climber who had seen friends lose their lives in the mercurial and sometimes vicious Scottish conditions.His dream was to build an indoor ice wall on which climbers might train before committing themselves to the capricious outdoors. Then, while at college, a chance meeting with a refrigeration expert confirmed that an ice wall was feasible. A prototype was built, followed by the real thing: a 13m\u2011high indoor iceberg, the largest in the world, housed in a room that is kept at about -2C.I started with a session on the indoor rock wall. \"To loosen up,\" as Jamie Bankhead, my climbing guide and the centre manager, put it. As I'd not been rock-climbing for a couple of years it soon had the opposite effect: I could feel my forearms tightening as I tried ever harder to make up for the lack of balance and power coming from my legs.Two hours later, fully loosened up, Jamie gave me a straightforward explanation of how to climb a vertical ice wall using two ice axes and boots with spikes on the toes. \"Keep your heels down. Press your groin in. Keep the axes up and close together.\"You would think it might be easy. Just whack an axe in, shift up, kick a toe in, shift up, and so on. But my first attempt did not go so smoothly. I whacked in an axe, then the other, kicked toes in, held it there \u2013 wow, already feeling the strain \u2013 heels lifted by a few millimetres, toes slipped out, then I hung like a failed gibbon from the axes with toes scrabbling at the ice. It was like a scene from Touching the Void in every way, except that I was only two centimetres off the ground.Ice climbing is all about balance and poise. Concentrating very hard indeed, and with much advice from Jamie below, I made it halfway up the 13m wall. There had been one precious moment when suddenly the combination of axes, crampons and body balance clicked into place. I rose without effort.I felt like a human fly, Spiderman, invincible. Two moves later I'd lost it completely. Sweat was rolling off me. I'd used far too much shoulder power to make it this far and now I was paying the price.The two-hour session passed in a blur of exhilaration and fatigue. I went to bed that night exhausted and slept like a baby.The next morning Glencoe was as bleak and beautiful as I'd ever seen it. The geology here means that the ridges on either side of the great sweeping valley have very few access points. \"In summer the Aonach Eagach ridge is the classic,\" said Jamie. \"But once you're committed, you have to finish it \u2013 there's no easy way off it.\"We were going to tackle Stob Coire nan Lochan, a well-known 1,115m peak, perhaps too well-known judging by the number of cars parked by the A82 in Glencoe. Avalanche risks, however, meant everyone was being forced to head for the same goal.After a long walk in we donned crampons and headed through knee-deep snow past the small loch, and up a steep slope towards one of several buttresses. We passed the time discussing when, and if, it was ever correct for the guide to abandon his customers and save his own skin. Jamie knew all the relevant cases, but didn't think it was going to be an issue for us. I wasn't so certain.The last kilometre, up a 45-degree slope, took me down to a T-shirt despite the flurries of snow \u2013 and icy rain. The temperature was rising. Finally we were standing under the buttress. When Jamie set off there were already two other parties struggling up the slope towards us, clearly bent on the same route. I paid out the rope as Jamie climbed, dodging the snow that came tumbling down. The clouds were closing in. When Jamie's shout \u2013 \"Climb When Ready!\" \u2013 came, the other two groups were waiting for me to leave.I set out, determined not to be hurried. However, it proved to be an easy scramble up the 50m to where Jamie stood. We repeated the manoeuvre. Now the third pitch. \"This is the one where you don't take pictures,\" said Jamie. \"I want your hands on that rope all the time.\"Looking up I could see why. The buttress had narrowed to a series of sharp needle rocks, rising into the mist. On either side were substantial drops on to steep snow gullies. Jamie went slowly, setting the rope through slings and chocks for me to remove on the way up \u2013 protection, as mountaineers call it. The other two groups came up and chose to traverse into the left-hand gully, missing this final challenge. \"You can always take that traverse,\" Jamie shouted down. \"Not a problem.\"I was cold and tired, but aware that the next 20 minutes were what I had come for. I was not going to give up now. I started up. There was a sling to remove, basically a large looped band that was thrown over one of the needle rocks. Then a chock. As each of these came out, there was a few metres of rope to the next protection, and I was aware that a slip would be painful and embarrassing, though certainly not fatal. The cloud, caught in an updraught, suddenly rose and I glanced behind to catch a brief glimpse of the mountains and valleys spread out below, a dizzying sense of space and height, and me clinging to this rock no wider than my shoulders.There was a column of sheer rock that my face was pressed against. No footholds or handholds. How on earth was I supposed to climb it? I fished around above my head with an axe, searching for a hold, but there was none. I tried scrabbling at the sides of this insurmountable obstacle with my crampons. They found no grip.Finally I put both axes over the top of the rock and locked them together. I was pretty sure this was not in any climbing manual. My arms were fully stretched. Then I shimmied up, using sheer brute force and some knee clenches on the rock. Shaking with relief, I reached the peak where the narrow ridge flattened out. All I had to do was walk 10 paces along an icy path, as broad as my boots, to safety.\"Don't fall now,\" shouted Jamie, \"there's no protection on this bit.\"Glad to have this reminder, I scampered across. Now there was just a short scramble to what should have been a magnificent view. Instead there was an icy roar of wind over the ridge, a scouring of sleet and a 360-degree panorama of cloud. \"I could tell you what you're missing,\" said Jamie, \"but you'd only weep.\"My perspective on ice climbing at that moment was as harsh as the climate: it's very hard work, it involves periods of being cold and wet, and it doesn't necessarily involve any views or even a glimpse of sunshine. Four hours later, in the bar of Kinlochleven's MacDonald Hotel, my toes warmed up, I added to the list: superb workout, totally exhilarating, and wild \u2013 exactly what I had come for. My Scottish winter is complete. I'm fully innoculated for an English summer.\u2022 The Ice Factor (01855 831100, ice-factor.co.uk) runs ice-climbing and mountaineering courses all year round. An indoor day combining rock and ice is \u00a365pp. A day on the hills costs \u00a3180 for the guide with a group of up to six. The Ice Factor also runs Xscape snow slope in Glasgow (xscape.co.uk/braehead) and plans to build an ice wall there too. The MacDonald Hotel in Kinlochleven (01855 831539, macdonaldhotel.co.uk) has doubles from \u00a364 B&B, cabins from \u00a310pp, and camping for \u00a36pp. For further information on snow sports in Scotland, see visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ice-climbing in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-19T16:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "WALESThis is a small but impressive collection of luxury rural holiday homes \u2013 with a slick website to match \u2013 from gorgeous cottages for two to wow-factor grand houses, the largest of which sleeps 10. It has 14 properties in Wales (plus three in the West Country, one in the Peak District and one in the Cotswolds). Clearly appealing to couples wanting to get away from it all, its smaller properties \u2013 for two or four \u2013 get booked up quickly, with Christmas and New Year selling out fastest. For the larger pads, summer (13 July-31 August) is the most popular time of year but there is still availability. It's worth noting that Sheepskin has a set price for each property throughout the year. Of its portfolio, the places that always sell out are Cider House, east of Abergavenny (sleeps two, \u00a3645 for seven nights throughout 2012), Hafod Glan Gwy near Hay-on-Wye (sleeps two, and is \u00a3625 for seven nights throughout 2012) and Tailor's Cottage near Betws y Coed (sleeps two to four, seven nights for \u00a31,065). \u2022 sheepskinlife.comSensitively restored and gorgeously stylish are the watchwords for Under the Thatch's selection of places to stay in Wales, which range from gypsy caravans to a sea captain's house overlooking Cardigan Bay. The Eco-Barn (sleeps eight, from \u00a3782) is a luxury conversion looking out over the Dyfi Valley in mid-Wales. It mixes green credentials with chic interiors, and has some dates still available over the summer holidays. Or try the bohemian charm of the 1920s Tin Bungalow, in Martletwy, Pembrokeshire (sleeps four, from \u00a3747), which is still available throughout the summer holidays. \u2022 underthethatch.co.ukFor dramatic views of the Brecon Beacons and Black Mountains, Brecon Beacons Holiday Cottages is a good bet \u2013 and you'll pay the same rent whether it's high or low season. For large groups, Pen-yr-Heol is very popular \u2013 a beautifully restored 17th-century traditional Welsh long house that sleeps 20, and is perfectly placed for walks in the Brecon Beacons national park. It sits in half an acre of land and has a small river flowing at the back (fenced off for small children). It is still available for most weeks from 21 July through the summer holidays, and costs \u00a31,530. \u2022 breconcottages.comRural and coastal cottages throughout the region are offered by Wales Holidays. Popular properties include Riverside Cottage (sleeps five, and for just \u00a3572) that's part of a barn conversion, with views over the Banwy Valley in mid-Wales \u2013 it's still available from 21 July-17 August. Or head for Anglesey and the chance of some royal-spotting \u2013 there's a detached stone cottage (sleeps four, costs \u00a3836) on a working farm near Moelfre, which even boasts Celtic ruins and an ancient burial mound within its land. It's available for three weeks from 20 July. \u2022 wales-holidays.co.ukQuality Cottages have close to 300 properties across Wales. Nearly half of those are within five miles of the sea, and the rest are in equally sought-after locations \u2013 the Brecon Beacons, Snowdonia and around the waterways of South Pembrokeshire. Ty Glan Afon, a traditional Welsh cottage with inglenook fireplace and woodburning stove, is set above the Mawddach Estuary, surrounded by woodland. It sleeps six and has some weeks available in August, at a cost of \u00a31,026. \u2022 qualitycottages.co.ukAs the name suggests, this company's collection (of more than 550) is spread along the Pembrokeshire coastline. Properties include Bangeston Farmhouse (sleeps 12), an environmentally sustainable building (rainwater is harvested and solar panels heat the water) with smart interior, 500 metres from East Angle Bay and the Pembrokeshire coastal path. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,890. Kisongo (sleeps eight) is a traditional cottage near Newport, with funky modern interior. A week in peak season costs \u00a31,321. \u2022 coastalcottages.co.ukSCOTLANDOffering 700 properties across Scotland, Cottages and Castles has a great spread of remote hideaways, and an impressive selection of places for large groups. If you're willing to splash out, gorgeous 17th century Dalcross Castle (sleeps 17, \u00a39,285), near Inverness, sits among immaculate landscaped gardens and is available through the summer holidays. Sweep down the stone spiral staircase to dine in splendour in the great hall. Tiaras not included. Slightly less pricey but equally spectacular is Easterheughs Castle (sleeps 10, available 28 July-31 August, \u00a33,100), high above the Firth of Forth \u2013 enjoy breakfast on the timber decking gazing out across the water. \u2022 cottages-and-castles.co.ukIf getting close to nature without giving up your creature comforts is your thing, Forest Holidays could have the answer \u2013 it offers luxury cabins set deep in woodland glades on Forestry Commission land, with lots of forest activities for kids that you can book separately, including forest trails to follow, and \"Dusk Watch\" walks led by a forest ranger. There are two sites in Scotland, both in spectacular settings: Strathyre Cabins, near Callander, overlook pine-fringed Loch Lubnaig, and Argyll Cabins are in Argyll Forest Park on the shores of Loch Long. The cabins always book up quickly for the school holidays, but there's still availability at both sites for the summer. In Strathyre, a two-bed Silver Birch cabin with hot tub (sleeps four) costs from \u00a31,137 during the summer holidays. Or go for a sumptuous three-bed Golden Oak cabin sleeping six \u2013 a week at Argyll costs from \u00a31,562 for the same period. \u2022 forestholidays.co.ukIt's all about beautiful locations with Scottish specialists Unique Cottages, and at very reasonable prices. Swallow Cottage (sleeps four), in Onich, near Fort William, is a lovely conversion of an old stone farm building, close to Loch Linhe with the mountains of Morvern beyond it, and walking and climbing at nearby Glencoe. It still has some availability at Easter, from 14-21 April (\u00a3375) and for the whole of the summer holidays (\u00a3550). Or there's the Clockhouse (sleeps four, \u00a3465 in high season), near Earlston on the Scottish Borders \u2013 this idyllic converted coach house sits on a 45-acre country estate, and guests are welcome to use the tennis courts there. It's free each week of the summer holidays except 4-11 August. \u2022 unique-cottages.co.ukFor a really get-away-from-it-all break, Islands and Highlands Cottages have some great places in picturesque locations. Popular properties include the one-bedroom Old Croft House on the Isle of Skye (sleeps two, \u00a3500, some availability through the summer holidays), a traditional stone cottage set within a crofting community, with views across to the Red Cuillin and Blaven mountains. Also on Skye is the Old Chapel of Ease (sleeps two, \u00a3950, availability throughout the summer), a quirky converted church in a stunning location, with stunning views over the loch. \u2022 highlandholidaycottages.co.ukOwned by Hoseasons, Scottish Country Cottages has a huge range of properties across Scotland, and they all have a VisitScotland grading, so you know exactly what you're getting. Five-star Kyles View Barn (sleeps six), near Argyll, has views over Loch Riddon and the Kyles of Bute, and is a five-minute walk from Fearnoch Bay. Activities on offer nearby include horse riding, sailing, fishing and climbing. A week during the summer holidays costs from \u00a3963-\u00a31,031. Or try a touch of manor house splendour with a holiday cottage in the grounds of Kinmount House, between Dumfries and Carlisle, and just a few miles from the coast. An architect-designed conversion of part of the Victorian servants' wing, five-star Annan House sleeps four (available through the summer holidays, \u00a3791-\u00a3848), and guests can make use of the indoor pool (shared between eight holiday cottages). \u2022 scottish-country-cottages.co.ukFor more holiday cottages and villas see guardiancottages.co.ukIf you have come across any useful websites or have any tips on self-catering for fellow readers, post a comment below.", "tags": ["Cottages", "Self-catering", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Wales holidays", "Short breaks", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "UK cottages: Wales and Scotland"},{"date": "2012-01-12T07:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Barrhead's Health and Care centre is relatively unusual. It is one of only a few partnerships in Scotland that manages local NHS and local authority social care services under a single structure and \u2013 in this case \u2013 the same roof.Jointly owned by NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde and East Renfrewshire council, proposals recently announced by the Scottish government mean Barrhead could soon become the norm.Integrating adult health and social care in Scotland is not a new idea, but in the context of budgetary pressures and an aging population, its time has come. Having consulted with stakeholders last summer, ministers have ruled out establishing a new statutory organisation (as proposed by Labour during the recent Scottish election) but will instead legislate to reform radically existing Community Health Partnerships (CHP).CHPs will be replaced by new Health and Social Care Partnerships (HSCP), which will be jointly run \u2013 as in the case of Barrhead's Health and Care centre \u2013 by the NHS and local authority in each locality. Initially, each HSCP will focus on improving care for older people by cutting delayed discharges, reducing unplanned admissions to hospital and increasing the number of older people who are cared for in their own home rather than in a care home or hospital.Central government spending will also reflect this shift from institutional to community-based care, with fewer resources (cash and staff) being directed towards hospitals and more to local facilities. NHS boards and local authorities will be required to produce integrated budgets for older people's services, which the Scottish government believes will end \"cost-shunting\", under which older people often end up remaining in hospital for longer than necessary.The new HSCPs will be jointly accountable to the NHS and local authorities, as well as the health secretary, but the Scottish government stresses that within this \"broad framework\", it will be local health and community care professionals who decide upon the delivery mechanisms and structures that best suit local needs and priorities.Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: \"These changes represent the radical reform that is badly needed to improve care for older people, and to make better use of the substantial resources that we commit to adult health and social care.Evidence from elsewhere is that changes in structures and staffing arrangements work best when designed and agreed locally, to suit the needs of local patients, service users and carers such as the work already underway in Highland.\"We will tackle the barriers that currently exist within Community Health Partnerships \u2013 division of accountability between the NHS and local authorities, insufficient and often unequal delegation of authority, budgets that are not integrated, leading to decisions about older peoples' care too often being dependent on whose budget is affected, and poor clinical engagement.\"Our reforms will deliver a system that is effectively integrated, leading to better outcomes for older people and better use of resources. We will now work with partners in the NHS, local government, the third and independent sectors and professional bodies to develop detailed consultation material for public discussion and scrutiny.\"Councillor Douglas Yates, the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities' spokesman for health and wellbeing, said: \"It is widely known that we need NHS healthcare to knit together more tightly with local government-run social care services and the work that we have been considering with the Scottish government attempts to achieve that.\"While we are still in the early stages of that discussion \u2013 with much of the detail still to be ironed out \u2013 our view on the general parameters of reform are similar.\"Dr Brian Keighley, chair of the BMA in Scotland, said: \"An overhaul of CHPs is long overdue. If these new 'partnership' organisations are to succeed, they must engage and involve GPs representing practices in the local area.\"And while it is important to provide much greater integration with social care services, it is essential that these new organisations endeavour to engage doctors from secondary care to ensure that there is greater integration of community and hospital based services.He added: \"These partnerships must not be about saving money, but should focus on providing the right balance of care available to local communities. In order to succeed, they must be clinically driven and supported by management to avoid falling into the pitfalls of the predecessor organisations. I hope that legislation will reflect this.\"Integration of health and social care is, to varying degrees, happening across the UK. Northern Ireland has done it since the 1970s; in Wales a recent strategy paper recommended moving care \"closer to home\"; while in England the controversial health and social care bill envisages clinical commissioning groups (CCGs) overseeing greater integration.A pilot scheme in the London borough of Sutton, for example, resulted in substantial savings. But on the mainland at least, Scotland appears to be leading the way.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Integration", "Policy", "Work practices", "Scotland", "Healthcare Network", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Scotland leading way in integration"},{"date": "2012-03-28T19:43:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The advent of spring has evidently tempted some British politicians to try out a favourite sport: kite-flying. The past few days have seen a steady stream of stories about the future of Royal Bank of Scotland, the bank that was once the biggest in the world and is now 83% owned by British taxpayers. There have been a string of pieces, on the BBC and across the papers, suggesting that the British government is in \"serious\" talks to sell off a sizable chunk of the RBS to Abu Dhabi.The Treasury has done some dutiful hosing down of the more excited speculation \u2013 but it is notable that the Conservative backbencher Matthew Hancock, formerly chief of staff to George Osborne, and a reliable signatory to party press releases, has popped up to defend a hypothetical sale. With fortuitous timing, Vince Cable has been issuing calls for RBS to be turned into a fully state-owned and -operated bank. Just three months after Richard Branson put up his first Virgin flag on a branch of Northern Rock, after the rushed sale of that mortgage lender, whether RBS remains in state hands, and on what terms, is up for debate.This is not the place to enter into a he-said, she-said measuring up of what will happen to one of the government's biggest assets, into which taxpayers have poured \u00a345bn. Treasury officials have been talking about selling a stake in RBS to a sovereign wealth fund in Asia or the Middle East since Alistair Darling was chancellor. George Osborne is also clear that he wants RBS to go back into private hands; the Whitehall assumption has long been that one of the swiftest ways to achieve that is to get in a big foreign buyer. And last year's bargain-basement sale of Northern Rock to Mr Branson indicates that ministers are not even bothered about making a big loss, as long as it rids them of one more headache. Mr Osborne might not use the same terms as Stephen Hester, but his position is not that far from the RBS chief executive, who declared earlier this month (again, the timing is striking): \"The faster the government starts selling its stake, the better for everyone.\"Nothing is amiss with that last sentence, apart from the fact that it is completely wrong. It is wrong for taxpayers, who will surely stand to lose substantial amounts in any such fire sale. It is wrong for small businesses, as ministers and voters will lose whatever grip they had on directing lending to hard-pressed companies that are facing bankruptcy or big losses thanks to the harsh financing terms extended by high-street banks. And finally, it is wrong for the British economy, which is struggling to emerge from a severe recession caused by banks running wild.The only people who might get some advantage out of the sort of sale suggested this week is the Conservative part of the coalition. It is not hard to imagine the flourish with which Mr Osborne would announce a deal, as evidence that he is getting on with sorting out Labour's legacy and the country's finances. But any such boost would surely be very short-lived, once taxpayers realised how much they were out of pocket. The government bought RBS shares at an average price of 50p. They are now around 28p, so a sale at these levels would mean a \u00a320bn loss. It would have been better had Gordon Brown not paid RBS shareholders anything for stock that was then arguably worthless, but we are where we are.\u00a0Any attempt to do a deal now will lead to a cut-price sale, and rub more salt in taxpayers'\u00a0wounds.As Mr Cable says, there is a strong case for keeping RBS in public hands and directing it to regenerate Britain's wrecked economy. A fully privatised finance sector would not help with that, as evidenced by bankers' behaviour during the boom. At the height of the bubble in 2007, about two-thirds of all bank lending went either into property or to other banks. Labour frontbenchers have sketched out plans for a state investment bank, but has got nowhere near the detail. But rather than invent a lender from scratch, it would make far more sense to use RBS. In this case, the best investment would be a long-term one.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Economic policy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Economics", "Financial sector", "Politics"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: keep it public | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-07T15:35:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "What kind of country would an independent Scotland be? These are some of the key numbers to the debate.It's in the news today as Severin Carrell reports:A vigorous dispute has broken out over Scottish independence after a report claimed that North Sea oil would have made Scotland better off than the rest of the UK last year \u2026 The Scottish government's annual analysis of spending and revenue showed that Scotland had a smaller deficit proportionally than the rest of the UK in 2010-11, but only if its full geographical share of North Sea oil revenues, worth nearly \u00a38.8bn last year, was included.The figures out today are from Government Expenditure and Revenue Scotland 2010-2011, which breaks down spending and revenues north of the border. Whitehall says the report has shortcomings and fails to take the UK financial stability guarantees into account. And recording Scottish data is complicated: not least because of the effects of devolution. Some data is recorded at a UK level, some at a Scotland level. Some of it is referred to as 'non-identifiable' - which means that the UK Treasury can't work out how much is spent specifically in Scotland. Most of the money spent in Scotland comes from taxes raised centrally and although it does have the power to raise the basic rate of income tax by up to 3p - the government there has never used this. In 2010/11 the Scottish government calculated this would be worth \u00a31bn.The Scottish government is not able to borrow on the international markets, but can borrow short-term from the UK central government. Meanwhile, the Scottish government points out:The UK Government is able to borrow to fund public sector expenditure across the UK, including the Scottish Government block grantSo what does the data say? The figures below are a mix of numbers from today's report and the Treasury.The UK's Treasury public spending analysis does give us some regional breakdowns. The chart above shows spending per head for different parts of the UK. Under this analysis (not fully accepted by the Scottish government), Scotland receives more per person than any part of the UK, apart from Northern Ireland, which has expensive security issues.The Scottish government says this is because the public sector in Scotland still includes water and sewage; more spending on education training; a greater reliance on agriculture and public services to go with it. Plus the fact that Scottish universities (which do not have \u00a39,000 tuition fees) also have longer courses.At the moment, money raised from North Sea oil and gas revenues goes into the UK's central government pot. The Scottish government argues that geography is crucial to this and has calculated the effect of North Sea revenues based on the UK's continental shelf, so money from oil drilled in the region mapped here would be allocated to Scotland. It has a much more dramatic effect than just dividing it up among the Scottish population based on its size. Assuming a per capita share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue remains at the same level as the share assuming the exclusion of North Sea revenue, that is, 8.3 per cent in 2010-11. In contrast, under an illustrative geographical share, Scotland's estimated share of total UK current revenue increased to 9.6 per cent in the same yearIf you look at the figures this way, it completely changes the Scottish economy. This shows the effect on Scotland's gross domestic product:And this is the effect on public spending if you compare it with or without the 'geographic element\".The latest population data shows Scotland has 5.2m people - up 2.5%, compared to a 3.5% increase in England. In 13 areas, the population has either gone down or stayed static, especially Inverclyde, where it has gone down by 2.8%.Scotland has a slightly higher 'dependent population' than England - 38.2% are either over retirement age or children, compared to 37.4% of the UK. About half of Scotland's population change comes from migration, pretty similar to England.There's more data below. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheetData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world's government data with our gateway\u2022 Search the world's global development data with our gateway\u2022 Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group\u2022 Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish independence", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Scottish politics", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland independence: all the data you need"},{"date": "2012-03-03T00:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish voters could be offered even greater freedoms on taxation and social policy after Labour said it would consider \"radical\" new powers under devolution.A Labour party commission has been set up by the Scottish Labour leader, Johann Lamont, in an attempt to develop an alternative to Alex Salmond's proposals for independence, which are due to be put to a referendum in autumn 2014.Senior party sources admit this process could eventually lead Labour to propose constitutional and political reforms in Westminster and other parts of the UK, to avoid Scotland's new powers creating further tensions with the rest of the UK, or raise questions about the role of Scottish MPs at Westminster.Lamont will tell the Scottish Labour conference in Dundee that the party would consider greater devolution at all levels of government within Scotland, a measure that could lead to substantial local council reform and potentially new local taxes.She will admit that new proposals are essential to prove to disillusioned voters that Labour has fresh ideas to offer after its humiliation in last May's Scottish parliament elections, when \"the party got the kind of beating we deserved.\"She is expected to say that further devolution does not just mean shifting powers from London to Edinburgh. \"If we believe in devolution, we must be more radical than that and ask at which level power should lie if we are to serve the people. Our test is what is in the best interests of the people of Scotland,\" she will tell delegates.Her announcement follows direct attacks on Salmond and the Scottish National party in a speech by UK party leader Ed Miliband on FridayHe accused the first minister of seeking only \"separation, division, isolation\" as the solution for the country's poorest. \"If we are going to create a fairer tax system, we must avoid the race to the bottom on tax rates that separation would import,\" he said. \"And if we believe in the idea of Scotland as a progressive beacon, why would we turn our back on the redistributive union, the United Kingdom?\" He went on: \"Right now, every nation in the UK, every child in poverty, every young person out of work, every small business struggling, needs solidarity, not isolation.\"Labour's commission has been preceded recently by open admissions by Alistair Darling, the former chancellor, and Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, that the Scottish parliament will need new tax powers which could see it raising nearly all the \u00a330bn it spends each year, independently of the Treasury.Lamont will also play down expectations that Labour would propose sweeping tax-raising powers on corporation tax, or devolve significant powers on welfare or social security benefits, in a sideswipe at Salmond's recent demands. A party official said it would have to take a \"cold\" look at the impact of new taxes on the whole of the UK.\"I will not be seduced into the place where which powers you demand is a test of pollitical virility. Where calling for corporation tax to be devolved somehow makes you harder, or more Scottish, or even more progressive,\" she will tell delegates.It is the latest in a series of initiatives to consider giving Scotland greater autonomy than under existing plans, the so-called \"devo plus\" option. As things stand, Holyrood is in line to gain new powers only over income tax rates, which will come into force in about 2016.Repeated opinion polls have shown that more Scottish voters favour devo plus than independence, but Labour has until now resisted promising a significant transfer of power.The Liberal Democrats are now investigating greater devolution in a \"home rule\" commission led by Menzies Campbell.Last month, David Cameron said the Tories could offer further powers too, but only after the referendum.Lamont's commission will be set up later this spring, but unlike the Lib Dems' review, will include only Scottish Labour MPs, MSPs, councillors and trade union leaders. It will not include figures from the voluntary sector, churches or business.Senior Labour figures admit that proposing detailed new powers at this stage could backfire, by helping Salmond to challenge them with a question on enhanced devolution at the referendum. The first minister has insisted he wants the option of putting two questions on the referendum ballot paper, and has resisted pressure from David Cameron and Labour to pose just one \"yes or no\" question on independence on the voting paper.So far, no political party or campaign group has offered to support a second question or to campaign for it but in a speech on Friday, Salmond fed growing suspicions that he would ask it anyway, and force Labour and the Lib Dems to tell voters why they would not campaign for it in the referendum.Speaking at a Times conference on the independence, Salmond said these opinion polls showed that current devolution structures were \"unsustainable\". That presented the UK parties with a dilemma.\"There is a growing need for those parties who are against independence to set out what they actually stand for,\" he said.\"It is something of a paradox that the people most urgently calling for an early referendum are the ones who are currently least equipped to argue their case in any campaign.\"Without a clear statement of what Scotland might look like in future within the union, the case against independence is inevitably based more on a negative view of Scotland's potential than a positive vision of the future.\"", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish politics", "Devolution"], "title": "Labour could offer Scotland new powers"},{"date": "2012-03-02T17:30:01Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This is a moment of transition for defence policy. The world is going through a period of immense change. New and emerging threats demand new policy responses. Global trends, from climate change to rising new economies, are recasting the global power balance and reshaping the security landscape.This is also a defining moment for Scotland. Scotland has two governments: one Tory, offering austerity of opportunity at home; the other nationalist, offering poverty of influence abroad. Both have defence plans that will limit our ability to achieve our ambitions on the world stage. I want us to expand Scotland's influence, but we can only do so at the heart of Britain with a strong British defence policy.The SNP do have a clear defence policy, which is to support the government's defence review. They have described it as a \"blueprint\". Despite suggestions otherwise, however, there's no evidence to suggest the SNP's position towards Nato has changed. They say they would work with Nato but their policy is to do so from outside the alliance.In Afghanistan I recently met troops from across Scotland. Each of those I met served with pride in the UK armed forces and they served as part of Nato, an organisation born after the second world war and at the beginning of the cold war, which is now finding a new purpose. Nato has a proud record of standing up to oppression, whether in Kosovo answering the world's calls to end the butchery, in Bosnia preventing the slaughter of thousands of European Muslims, or in Afghanistan tackling the Taliban regime. Nato helped in the Pakistan earthquake and Hurricane Katrina relief. These are just a few reasons why countries are queuing up to get into Nato. There is only one mainstream party wanting to leave: the SNP.It is peculiar that the SNP rely on a catch-all comparison that says a separate Scotland will be like Denmark and Norway. Both nations have actively contributed to major Nato operations, including Afghanistan. While the SNP decried Nato's action to save thousands of Muslim Europeans as \"unpardonable folly\", the Danes and Norwegians were fighting bravely alongside allies to protect the lives of innocents.The SNP want the separation debate to ask one question, but there are so many going unanswered. How will Scotland get its way in the world if we leave the UK, the one country with the unique influence of being in the EU, Nato, the Commonwealth and the G8? How does it help the world's poorest people to walk out on the country with the second largest donor of aid money \u2013 co-ordinated by 500 Scots at the Department for International Development head offices in East Kilbride? In the worst financial crisis since the depression, how do we strengthen Scotland's businesses by separating from the third largest economy in Europe? How can we be a force for good by getting out of the UK, the fourth biggest military budget on the planet? We are currently one of only five countries out of 198 in the world with a permanent seat on the UN security council. No country in peacetime history has ever given up this degree of influence and Scotland shouldn't be the first. Separation is a powerful idea, but a 19th-century idea, entirely unsuited to the complexities of influence in the 21st century.Separation threatens one of Scotland's greatest strengths. The Clyde has built ships for 300 years. If Scotland leaves Britain the Clyde and Rosyth would be in a foreign country to the Royal Navy, which has never built a warship in a foreign yard. If the SNP gets its way it would have achieved what the Tories and the emergence of east Asian shipbuilding has failed to do \u2013 sinking Scottish shipbuilding. Under a Labour government no warships will be built abroad: our frigates and destroyers will be built in the four nations of the UK.In today's complex world we need strong defences at home and overseas. That is under threat from the two governments we face. A country of exploration and innovation, of heritage and history, I want Scotland and the UK to have the power to persuade and the ability to act in the world.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Nato", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Defence policy", "Scotland", "Military", "UK news", "World news", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland cannot afford to leave Nato | Jim Murphy"},{"date": "2012-03-01T07:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "One of the most heated arguments about Scotland's future in the UK and Alex Salmond's independence plans will centre on its defence. For nationalists, the presence of the Trident nuclear weapons fleet on the Clyde and the UK's invasion of Iraq, both seen as deeply unpopular in Scotland, are causes of huge grievance.For nationalists, both are totemic examples of Scotland's wishes being swept aside to serve London's interests.For Salmond's opponents, the greater security and shared burden being part of the UK's armed forces and Nato is one of the strongest reasons for preserving the United Kingdom; the armed forces helps bind the UK together. They believe that defence is one of the Scottish National party's weakest cards.It is one of the most difficult policy areas for the SNP: it has to wrestle with whether to stay in Nato and by implication accept that its partners will field nuclear weapons; whether it should seek to share defence with the rest of the UK (rUK); how long it would allow Trident to remain on the Clyde; and, most central of all, define what is Scotland trying to defend, why and against whom?The argument roared into life in January after Phillip Hammond, the UK defence secretary, described the Scottish National party's plans to base a new Scottish defence force on the existing Scottish regiments, with one air base and a naval base, as \"laughable\".In a BBC Radio 4 interview, he said: The UK armed forces are a highly integrated and very sophisticated fighting force. The idea that you can sort of break off a little bit, like a square on a chocolate bar and that would be the bit that went north of the Border, is frankly laughable.In a quick rebuttal, again on the BBC, Alex Salmond retorted that: The great argument in favour of having a Scottish defence force is two-fold - one, you wouldn't have to have the biggest concentration of nuclear weapons in western Europe situated in Scotland, which many people support the removal, and secondly of course, we'd have the right to decide whether or not to participate in international engagements.Salmond said the UK government's defence review had provided the blueprint for an SDF: The configuration of the army in Scotland, the mobile brigade, which is the outcome of the defence review, looks exactly like the configuration you'd want for a Scottish defence force - so that's one naval base, one aircraft base and a mobile armed brigade.This is based on the MoD's plans to base an armoured brigade in Scotland \u2013 thought to be the 7th Armoured Brigade famously known as \"The Desert Rats\" - before it then moves the headquarters of 1st Armoured Division from Germany by 2020. It incorporates the Highlanders battalion of the Royal Regiment of Scotland, the Royal Scottish Dragoon Guards tank regiment, the Mercian armoured regiment, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers light infantry, signallers and a reconnaissance regiment.At other times recently, however, the SNP has said it would take control of the five battalion strong Royal Regiment of Scotland, the Royal Scots Dragoon Guards tank regiment and the Scots Guards. In its most recent document released in January, Your Scotland, Your Future the SNP went much further, promising that \"we'll also restore the historic Scottish regiments\", without naming those it means. Several recent regiments have been lost through amalgamation or closure: the Royal Scots, King's Own Scottish Borderers and the Cameron Highlanders have gone in the last two decades.But these broad statements have came under intense attack from former defence chiefs. One major criticism is that simply grabbing what is currently in Scotland or \"belongs\" to Scotland, and making do is starting at the wrong end of the problem.Professor Malcolm Chalmers, the director of UK Defence Policy Studies at the Royal United Services Institute, and a UK government adviser, argues that Scotland first needs to know what it needs and why: The separation of forces into two distinct entities would involve significant transitional costs - on new administrative structures, duplicated support and training capabilities, and probably also some new infrastructure and equipment.Beyond an initial period of disruption, though, an independent Scotland would have a wide range of defence options. If it were to follow Denmark and Norway into Nato membership, it would find it easier to gain the benefits of defence sharing, but would be expected to pay its way. A Scotland in Nato would be expected to have forces that could contribute - in ways proportional to its size - to future operations like Libya and Afghanistan. But it would have a range of choices on how to do so.A decision to stay out of Nato - like the Republic of Ireland - would be less costly in defence terms. Scotland could focus on the risks that threaten its territory directly, make it clear that it was not interested in keeping major war-fighting assets, and cut its defence budget to Irish levels. This option, however, would be difficult to sell to Scotland's NATO neighbours - including the UK - who would see it as an attempt to free-ride on their protection. A decision not to join NATO would be seen as a signal that the new Scotland was stepping out of the European mainstream (not withstanding the Irish exception). It would raise alarm bells in both the US and in Europe, and make it more difficult to maintain good relations, and technical cooperation, with UK armed forces. It might also complicate Scotland's application for EU membership, the success of which is critical for economic stability. Senior SNP sources insist they are alive to these issues. Deeply frustrated by the spat earlier this year, they insist that no formal defence proposals are yet available to debate or attack. The Scottish government is essentially staging its own internal defence review, drafting a detailed policy on the purpose and shape of a Scottish defence force for publication in November 2013.Angus Robertson, the SNP's defence spokesman at Westminster, has visited Norway and Denmark to study their defence policies and tour their naval bases. This gives a strong hint where the SNP's defence strategy is heading: looking at the Arctic and the \"High North\" Atlantic, a region which will be the focus of intense competition with the Russians for mineral and energy resources, as the ice cap recedes, as the main focus for a future defence force.But at the core is this question: what would Scotland need to defend and why? Apart from civil defence, its landmass and coastal waters, there are the North Sea oil and gas platforms which currently provide the UK up to \u00a312bn a year in revenues, and future oil fields west of Shetland on the Atlantic frontier. It would have to include offshore wind and marine energy plants, and Scotland's substantial fishing grounds. At present, the Scottish government already operates four unarmed fishery protection vessels. But because of the UK defence cuts, there are no maritime patrol aircraft. Scotland would also likely need a dedicated special forces for oil and green energy fields.The best available Scottish government position on defence was set out in its independence white paper Your Scotland, Your Voice in September 2009. It was extremely short on detail on defence, but said there were four core objects:  to uphold national sovereignty and secure the territorial integrity of the country;to secure internal security in the face of threats and risksin partnership with other nations; to help to prevent and resolve conflicts and war anywhere in the world in partnership with other nations;to further peaceful development in the world with due respect for human rights. But, as Chalmers argues, if Scotland were to join Nato or take part in a larger regional defence of the north east Atlantic and European Arctic waters, it would need to offer more than just a territorial defence force; it would need some form of expeditionary forces, air power and naval forces. So: what would an independent Scotland need for that, and where would they come from? Would the Scottish government expect to get a pro rata share of the UK's existing forces, and cherry-pick those ships and planes and land forces which suited its defence strategy, but not the UK's and Nato's?One immediate question is how much Scotland could and should spend on defence. Chalmers, a Scot by birth and upbringing, has worked out a notional cost, again based on Denmark and Norway.He suggests this:Denmark and Norway spent 1.4% and 1.5%, respectively, of GDP on defence in 2010. If Scotland had done the same - spending 1.45% of GDP on defence - it would have had an 2010 defence budget of \u00a31.7 billion, excluding extra-regio GDP, or \u00a32.1 billion, if one includes the estimated share of offshore GDP.This is considerably less than the \u00a33.3bn which the SNP estimates Scottish taxpayers currently contribute to defence spending. The last regional break-down for defence within the UK found that in 2007/08, the MoD spent \u00a31.57bn directly in Scotland. That figure is very likely to include the costs of running the Clyde Submarine base at Faslane and Coulport west of Glasgow where Trident is based. It is also where all the UK's new Astute nuclear hunter killer submarines will be based with remaining Trafalgar class nuclear submarines from 2017. And Faslane and Coulport are the trickiest issues of all for the SNP, military specialists believe. Becoming a non-nuclear weapons state is, said one SNP source, a \"red line\", non-negotiable issue. But removing and redeploying Trident will be very costly and laborious; it would require a long transition period and extensive decommissioning and decontamination work. Coulport has stored nuclear warheads since the 1960s. That presupposes the rUK has another base to send them to, but crucially, it also presupposes the UK government, Nato and the US would agree to removing Trident if Scotland wanted to join Nato. Several Scottish defence analysts believe they would not, so could the Scottish government be forced to compromise, as the price of a future alliance?12.25pm: There are several key issues to tackle for the SNP and Scottish government, on the equipment and forces that a putative Scottish defence force would need, and on its membership or links to Nato. Many defence analysts believe membership of Nato will be essential.A central problem for the SNP being raised by Angus Robertson, the SNP defence spokesman at Westminster, is that the forces, bases and equipment physically present in Scotland are not suitable for an SDF or for meeting Scotland's likely defence needs. Successive UK government's have heavily trimmed back on once substantial military assets in Scotland after the end of the Cold war and the collapse of the Soviet Union.That process is continuing in the current defence cuts: many services are being condensed, cut back and focused in England, an issue raised this morning by sneakyboy and others. The MoD insists this is more efficient financially, that the UK's defence is a collective effort, and that Scotland is no longer geographically on the Cold war front line.In an STV Scotland Tonight special on defence on Wednesday evening, Robertson argued that the scrapping of the UK's Nimrod maritime patrol fleet and a widely-rumoured decision to move the Royal Marines 45 Commando from Arbroath to England, left Scotland unable to adequately protect North Sea oil rigs. An independent Scotland could have to buy its own.He also said Scotland no longer had any helicopters based there. Added to this, military sources have told the Guardian that the five battalion Royal Regiment of Scotland is likely to lose at least one more battalion, and possibly two, in the next round of defence cuts.The Royal Scots Dragoon Guards tank regiment \u2013 a core part of the 7th Armoured Brigade that Salmond believes would be the basis of an SDF - is also said to be very vulnerable: defence chiefs are expected to cut one of the UK's two surviving tank regiments. In modern, highly mobile expeditionary warfare based on force projection, tanks are no longer essential.On Scotland Tonight, Robertson said:As we know in Scotland to our cost, the UK has scrapped the entire [marine patrol aircraft] fleet, those were the Nimrod aircraft based at RAF Kinloss, so now the UK has none of the aircraft whatsoever. The Irish republic does, Norway does, Denmark does, the UK does not and that's a capability gap that we in Scotland will have to look at...The UK is not adequately protecting our maritime resources at the present time. [How] should we decide to deal with this gap? I think the best way to deal with it is to be able to make these decisions as close to home as possible. At the present time, Scottish taxpayers contribute over \u00a33bn a year to the MoD in Whitehall but the government in London decides to only spend \u00a32bn of that contribution in Scotland.UK government officials and ministers believe the regional spending issue is fatuous because the UK's defence is collective, and most military operations happen overseas; they also insist that with the UK spending deficit, financial efficiency is crucial.On Nato membership, Robertson is very carefully not ruling out continued membership of Nato. As Dr Philips O'Brien, of Glasgow university, pointed out on the programme, the country which Robertson is so keen to work with, Norway, regards Nato membership as absolutely essential. Norway is an example of a country which is desperate to stay within Nato because of the defence of its old fields. In fact Norway believes Nato is the foundation of its defence because it has oil fields, and it's quite worried about Russia [There is] no way that Norway would somehow make special exceptions to defend a non-Nato Scotland.Robertson will publicly confirm that working with Nato is part of current SNP policy. He said that an independent Scotland would want to participate in UN-sanctioned operations overseas alongside Nato. He cited non-Nato Sweden flying sorties in the Libyan conflict.The SNP has said we're keen to work with our European colleagues through the common security and defence policy [of the EU] and indeed work within Nato's Partnership for Peace. We're quite content to work with Nato. If one looks at recent operations which we think were justified in international law, the UN thought them important, that would be the most recent example of that with Libya...But asked explicitly about whether an independent Scotland would remain in Nato, despite the SNP's current policy to withdraw from it, Robertson did not say no: Preparations are being made for the prospectus which will be put before the Scottish people and unlike decisions that have been made in Westminster, this happens in an orderly process.Our colleagues in the Scottish government are looking at the policy options for Scotland; they're looking at the challenges that one faces; one has to look at the options that are before you and then you move on to producing a prospectus which will inform the debate in Scotland in the run-up to the referendum.2.20pm: Another question has emerged about whether the Scots currently serving in the UK armed forces would want to transfer. Raised by StuartCrawford, a former SNP Holyrood candidate, military officer and now security adviser, this issue was also picked up in last night's Scotland Tonight show by Gen Sir Mike Jackson, former head of the British Army.Jackson, who described himself in the interview as a unionist, said:There is a sense I have heard from some quarters that for example the Royal Regiment of Scotland transfers across from the British Army to an independent Scottish army. Well institutionally that might be possible but at the end of the day, the Royal Regiment of Scotland is those soldiers who actually form it. Now, are they going to be compelled to move and if they're not compelled, I suspect many, probably the large majority, will choose to stay within the British army, because that's where they will get the opportunities they sought when they joined up.We asked former SNP defence spokesman and army Lieutenant Colonel Crawford to expand on this. He said:All of us in the military community are saying is that no-one has asked the Scottish soldiers if they would want to transfer; all of us collectively believe that few of them would want to. No-one knows what the Scottish defence force is for.Crawford argues that this situation could change if and when the Scottish government produces a much clearer blueprint and purpose for an SDF, and particularly if Scotland remains in Nato. For their part, Robertson and Salmond have said they believe Scottish soldiers who wanted to stay in the British army, RAF or Royal Navy would quite easily be able to stay in it; there are numerous nationalities in the UK armed forces.But Col Clive Fairweather, a former commander in the SAS, in the British Army in Germany and a former HM Chief Inspector of Prisons in Scotland, is far more cutting. A consultancy colleague of Crawford's, he believes just doing UN peace-keeping, similar to Ireland's role, will not attract the right recruits:If it's a 'blue hat' UN force only one would find plenty of geeks wanting to join but I don't think you will find many real soldiers wanting to do it; if we were to join Nato, they would find Scottish defence forces were for real.Second in command of 22 SAS, who helped end the Iranian embassy siege in 1980, Fairweather also contradicts Robertson's assertion that losing 45 Commando from Arbroath is significant for defending oil rigs:If you really want the rigs protected, 45 Commando are only one part of it. You really need special forces; you need people trained to get onto rigs from the sea and from the air. While the Marines are better than lorried infantry, my understanding is you would normally be looking at specialists like the Special Boat Squadron or SAS. Scotland will need it's own SAS or equivalent, plus the ships and helicopters that go with it.Robertson retorted to Jackson's point:Normal countries make decisions about their own defence and foreign policy. It would mean we make decisions about how much money we spend, the regiments that we keep, the facilities we keep, how we work with our neighbours and friends.3.57pm: An independent Scotland could apply to join Nato and is likely to seek close military ties with Norway and Denmark to help patrol the northern Atlantic, in a dramatic shake up of the Scottish National party's defence strategy.Forging a close working relationship with both Scandinavian states is one of the key issues being studied as part of the Scottish government's proposals for a new Scottish defence force, due to be published in November 2013 in its \"prospectus\" for independence, SNP sources have said in response to the Reality Check series on independence.The Reality Check study into defending an independent Scotland has thrown up significant questions about whether the SNP can or will maintain its long-standing policy of rejecting full membership of Nato, the multinational alliance central to the UK's defence policy.It is understood that policy could now be scrapped by the Scottish government.Largely because of its abhorrence for nuclear weapons, and overseas interventions such as Kosovo and Iraq, the SNP's current position is it will only join Nato's looser Partnership for Peace confederation which falls short of full Nato membership.Yet as Alex Salmond leads an intensive policy review in the run-up to the independence referendum, the SNP is now clear it wants to maintain a close military relationship with the rest of the UK after independence, alongside a joint strategy for the \"high north\" and Arctic regions with Norway and Denmark, both states whose defence strategies are founded on Nato membership.Party sources suggest that this paradox is leading the Scottish government to reconsider Nato membership, a point raised by dadsarmy.Angus Robertson, the SNP's defence spokesman at Westminster, refused to rule that out in an interview on STV's Scotland Tonight programme on Wednesday.Asked about this, Robertson said: Preparations are being made for the prospectus which will be put before the Scottish people and unlike decisions that have been made in Westminster, this happens in an orderly process.Our colleagues in the Scottish government are looking at the policy options for Scotland; they're looking at the challenges that one faces; one has to look at the options that are before you and then you move on to producing a prospectus which will inform the debate in Scotland in the run-up to the referendum.A switch in stance on Nato will strengthen the belief that Salmond is preparing to offer Scottish voters a version of \"indy lite\" at independence: where Scotland would retain the Queen, sterling and the Bank of England, continue with the BBC in some form, and potentially share a foreign policy with the rest of the UK.The Scottish government and SNP are adamant that an independent Scotland would ask for Trident nuclear submarines to be withdrawn from the Clyde, a key point raised by many on Reality Check including Doonfooter.However, that could take some years because of the scale and difficulties to dismantling its nuclear facilities and finding new bases elsewhere in the UK, a point made by Dorice. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish independence", "Defence policy"], "title": "How would an independent Scotland defend itself?"},{"date": "2012-02-28T17:49:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The SNP has said that Scotland would keep sterling if its people voted for independence and only later use a referendum to decide whether to join the euro. Both options require the approval of other nations, so does it go without saying that Scots could continue to spend pounds sterling if the country broke away from the rest of the UK?Unsurprisingly the view once touted by many in the SNP that an independent Scotland would join the euro has become increasingly unpopular in recent months. While all the talk is about who will be leaving the troubled currency union, it is hardly a vote-winning strategy to discuss joining up \u2013 at least not any time soon.So the view from the SNP seems to be keep the pound to start with and then maybe join the euro several, or more likely many, years down the line, when hopefully there is still a eurozone to join and it is significantly more stable than at present.SNP finance secretary John Swinney said in early February that an independent Scotland would keep the pound for the foreseeable future, pushing membership of the euro back into the mid-2020s.In an interview with the Scotsman, Swinney said:I can't foresee a set of circumstances that will see the economic conditions being correct for the euro for some considerable time. It would be difficult to define that but it feels neither to me like the short term or the medium term.Those comments prompted the Scottish Conservatives to accuse the SNP of flip-flopping on the euro as well as making too many assumptions about whichever currency it chooses for an independent Scotland.Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish Conservatives, said:Once again the SNP has been caught out making policy on the hoof in a crude attempt to persuade the Scottish public to their position. As each day passes, it's becoming increasingly apparent that they have no coherent plan for Scottish independence. The SNP twist and turn in the wind, changing position to whatever suits them on a given day \u2013 where are their principles?Alex Salmond cannot blithely assume that he can keep the pound and then join the euro at his own choosing. His tactic seems to be that if he says something often enough it will become fact. It's high time he was honest with the public on what a separate Scotland would look like.Is Davidson right that the SNP cannot assume an independent Scotland can keep the pound? Swinney says he will put in place deals with the Bank of England, what would the terms need to be? Or can Scotland just keep using the pound without any cross-border agreements? Such a move would not be totally unprecedented.There has been a furious debate about this issue in comments on the Guardian website, such as in this exchange:@stillstayingcool argued:Scotland cannot be independent and still use the pound sterling. The central bank (Bank of England) would still be based in London, and set monetary policy, ie interest rates. This is not independence.@maisiedotts replied:Really? Ireland kept the \u00a3 from 1921 until it got its own Saorst\u00e1t pound in 1928, then the Irish Punt in 1938, all of which was pegged to Sterling until it joined the Euro in 2002.I have outlined here three currency options that an independent Scotland would have. Please get in touch with anything you feel needs to be considered, any other currency options you can envisage, any pertinent examples of currency unions from history and any other information you think can help answer the question.Get in touch below the line, email your views to katie.allen@guardian.co.uk or tweet @KatieAllenGdn.Before we consider Scotland keeping or leaving the pound it is worth looking back over the long history of sterling in Scotland. The sharing of the pound sterling between England and Scotland is a monetary union that has \"proved more enduring than any other between nations\", according to Angus Armstrong at the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. In a recent paper on Scottish independence, he laid out the background:Political union between England and Scotland began with the Union of the Crowns in 1603 which marked the start of a monetary union with the pound Scots pegged to sterling at a rate of twelve to one. The Acts of Union in 1707 brought into effect the Treaty of the Union, where the two parliaments merged into the Parliament of Great Britain, and full monetary harmonisation with sterling replacing the pound Scots to become the legal currency of Great Britain.Will that long currency union endure should Scotland become independent? Such a nation has three main currency options. Let's consider each one briefly:1. Join the euroAs mentioned above, it's a time when most of the discussion is about leaving the euro for its current members rather than anyone new joining up. With problems in peripheral eurozone countries reverberating through the entire single currency area, Scots and Scottish politicians will be wary of joining the party when it's possibly in its dying moments.Still, joining the eurozone does not necessarily mean soaring borrowing costs; yields on government bonds vary greatly between eurozone members.The euro has been touted as an option in the past by the SNP and is still seen as a long-term option. Back in 2009 Alex Salmond told Spanish TV that with the pound weakening there were growing arguments for joining the euro:I think the argument for having strong fiscal powers, powers over revenue, powers to expand the economy within a monetary context, within a European euro context, will prove to be a very strong one for the people of Scotland.Whenever an independent Scotland would want to sign up, joining the euro is not a mere formality. There are already questions about whether an independent Scotland would even remain an EU member. If it needed to reapply, it is worth bearing in mind that any enlargement of the EU requires unanimity among member states. In theory, countries with separatist movements such as Spain, with its Basque region, could take objection to sending certain signals by allowing in an independent Scotland.Finally, swapping the pound sterling for the euro does not mean Scotland would be shaking itself free of outside controls. It would be swapping monetary policy set by the Bank of England for monetary policy set by the Frankfurt-based European Central Bank - policy that tries to fit to a myriad of different economies spread over a wide area.2. Keep sterlingAgain, keeping sterling is no mere formality. Unless Scotland goes down the Kosovo route. Kosovo is not a member of the eurozone but uses the euro. It is legal tender but the country is not even a member of the EU and has no formal currency agreements with the ECB and other European institutions. Such a path would be one way to keep the pound without having to wrangle with Westminster. But such a move is not without many risks, notes Ross Walker, UK economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland.If Scotland pursued such a policy with the pound it would not benefit from the Bank of England as lender of last resort, says Walker. With bank runs and bailouts still fresh in people's memories, Scotland's sizeable financial sector and other businesses would not accept such a position.The more likely path is for an independent Scotland and the rest of the UK to remain in a currency union, retaining the backing of the BoE. For that to happen Scotland would need agreement from Westminster and among other things the UK would require a stability and growth pact in place, says Walker. As for what such a pact means for independence and independent policy-setting, Walker adds: \"You are hardly going to have George Osborne sitting in the Treasury imposing austerity and trying to retain the UK's 'AAA' credit rating while allowing a free-for-all north of the border.\"Many experts argue keeping sterling does make economic sense.NIESR's Armstrong notes there are three common criteria used to assess the viability of an optimal currency area:1. Integration of intermediate and final product markets with a high degree of cross-border trade relative to domestic trade.2. Capital and labour market mobility to enable greater integration, specialisation and faster adjustments to shocks.3. The extent to which nations have similar structures and cycles.He concludes that on these there is \"prima facie evidence that Scotland would benefit from continued use of sterling\" because criteria 1 and 2 are easily met while 3 is harder to judge.3. Get a new currencyThis is the most risky option. Walker at RBS comments: \"The risks over whether the fiscal policies for the rest of the UK under keeping sterling would suit Scotland are dwarfed by the potential risks and volatility that a new currency brings.\"11.22am: Picking up on some of the comments below the line in reference to a comment above on whether Spain would have any objections to an independent Scotland joining the European Union: As several commenters have noted and was discussed on yesterday's Reality Check, the Spanish government has denied it would have any objection to an independent Scotland being a member of the EU.12.01pm: For anyone wishing to read more on this, some links worth flagging up that have been sent in below the line: KingDoug responding to Jo Murkens of the LSE's email points us to Stephen Noon, a post-graduate in EU Law who authored the last SNP manifesto and two posts from him:http://stephennoon.blogspot.com/2012/01/fair-shares.htmlhttp://stephennoon.blogspot.com/2011/12/20-years-out-of-date.htmlBeor says this post by Aiden O'Neill QC responds to Jo Murkens as well: http://eutopialaw.com/2011/11/14/685/2.40pm: Thank you again for the comments and links that have been coming in all day. Here's an overview of some of the discussion of the question so far:maisiedotts highlights this piece in the Scotsman from Gavin McCrone looking at Salmond's comments on sticking with sterling and then joining the euro at an appropriate time. He focuses on the concept of an independent Scotland issuing its own currency. He concludes:The lesson I draw from this is that an independent Scotland could not continue to use sterling as if nothing had changed. A lender of last resort would be required to deal with speculative pressures and possible crises. This would require a Scottish Central Bank and it should issue its own currency, which could be pegged to sterling. If a Scottish Government did not always want to accept policies decided for the rest of the UK and objected to oversight of its fiscal policy by authorities in London, its exchange rate could be altered. The possibility that this might happen, however, could affect the price and rate of interest of Scottish Government bonds.All of this just goes to show that the declared option of staying with sterling would be far from a simple matter for an independent Scotland, and how that is dealt with would have major implications for the economy. There is a good deal to be considered and explained before we vote in the referendum.sneekyboy has taken an in-depth look at four options they see for currency in an independent country:1) Keep the Pound Sterling in a common monetary zone.2) Start up our own currency \"Pound Scots\" and peg it to the Pound Sterling (essentially the same as #1 but without consent of the other user. Definition of 'Pegging' - A method of stabilising a country's currency by fixing its exchange rate to that of another country).3) Start up our own currency \"Pound Scots\" and let it float on the foreign exchange market.4) Join the Euro... Although you need to be in the ERM2 for 2 years first so #1, #2 or #3 would be needed first in any case.calmeilles responds:Good list of the plausible options. But there are some caveats.1 would require agreement with Westminster and it really does seem unlikely that a chancellor would give up any part of the political control over the Bank of England so both 1 and 2 would mean Scotland not having control over its money supply or interest rates.1 and 2 are incompatible with 4 so a plan to eventually join the Euro more or less requires 3 at some point.4 isn't just a choice, it is a requirement of the acquis communautaire for new members. That raises the question of whether Scotland would be treated as a new accession state or if some special negotiations would finesse its membership on special terms. But in either case it seems improbable that the existing members would allow an independent Scotland the wide range of derogations historically enjoyed by the UK.RClayton adds:Sneekyboys helpful postings set out the options and issues.- Yes Scotland could use Sterling either as Kosovo does or through a currency union;- Using someone else's currency without having a currency union has risks; and if you used different notes these include the risk that this would actually be treated by the world at large as a different currency which was exchanged at a discount or premiium to sterling.- If you have a currency union, there would need to be agreements with the central bank about fiscal and economic policy: see currency area theory and the recent events in the Euro Zone.- The question therefore is not so much whether an independent Scotland could use Sterling; but the extent to which use of Sterling (or equally the Euro) is a risk (if outside a currency union) or compromises independence (if in a currency Union.in a currency Union (whether with Sterling or the Euro) , Scotland would in effect be as independent as Greece is,. For those who favour indpendence, this is no doubt a greater freedom than continuing with the United Kingdom, The currency does not seem decisive against other reasons for and against independenceHandandShrimp suggests that there are short and long-term options to be considered:Of course Scotland could use Sterling and certainly in the short term that would be the only practical course. In the medium term we would need to determine what best suited our economy. The pundits are forecasting low interest rates for years to come. Low interest rates have traditionally better suited the Scottish economy which has not had the over-heat and property bubbles of the South.There have been cries of Aha! (a la Alan Partridge I think) that if we use Sterling that is not real indpendence but If interest rates stay low I cannot see currency impacting on political independence. On a day to day basis it would be a non-issue. If for some unforeseen reason the BoE needed to raise interest rates dramatically then yes, Scotland would probably drop out of Sterling and either float its own currency or consider the Euro. Contingency plans would always need to be on the Risk Register. Fortuntaely the BofE is independent of the Treasury and monetarist policies are no longer the port of first call for Government.The only real debate is whether the arrangement is formal or informal.If the Euro survives the next couple of years I think in the long term we will all be in the Euro.macart addsSome people claim that the BoE controlling monetary policy isn't really independence and I can see why they may think that. However, real independence comes from control of resource, taxation and spend.I'm quite comfortable with the idea of Sterling and the BoE. It's a strong tradable international currency and the chaps there seem to know what they're doing most of the time. Perhaps in a few years once that oil fund is set up and we get a nice little nest egg going we may even consider our own currency, but until then its good business and a show of good relations to keep faith with a currency and bank so well thought of.5.37pm: I am signing off now and would like to thank everyone for taking the time to send in their views and so many links to research and other blogposts on the topic.We will leave this blog open for your comments for now and it appears there are various areas where more evidence is needed. Clearly, there is plenty that merits further discussion from both political and economic perspectives. In particular, there has been much debate over to what extent retaining sterling and using the Bank of England as lender of last resort would compromise independence. There is also a fair amount of discussion over the legal technicalities of an independent Scotland joining the European Union and what that implies for euro membership.Our series continues on Wednesday when we ask the question: How would the BBC be divided if Scotland became independent?Thanks again for all the contributions today.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "European Central Bank", "Europe", "Euro", "World news", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Can Scotland be independent and keep sterling?"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-01T16:11:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " A fortnight ago, Creative Scotland blew any goodwill it had built up with the announcement of its latest funding review. Of the 74 arts organisations that had received flexible funding, grants of between \u00a355,000 and \u00a3300,000 covering two years, 49 will now have to compete on a project-by-project basis. Among them are award-winning theatre companies Vanishing Point and the Edinburgh-based site-specifists Grid Iron.Chief Executive Andrew Dixon has blogged in explanation : \"We have confirmed secure funding for 25 organisations, three of them as Foundations and 22 as Annual Clients with budgets set aside for three years. The other 49 organisations have secure budgets until April 2013 and will have access to bid into \u00a311m of lottery budgets each year.\" The alternative, he says, was losing 20 per cent of those companies outright. Despite a government cut of \u00a32.1m, the increased lottery money means that more funding will be available.But the question being asked is, \"At what cost?\" And it's being asked by many people. \"I've found noone \u2013 artist, producer, journalist, writer, musician \u2013 who is in favour of these changes,\" writes playwright David Greig in an open letter posted on his blog . Calling for a complete suspension of the plans, Greig suggests that a great deal of opposition is going unvoiced \"because [artists and producers] fear they will be left exposed in future funding decisions.\"At her personal blog, the Scotsman's theatre critic Joyce McMillan lays out what she calls the review's \"three deadly sins\". First, she stresses that lottery money can only be used for one-off projects, so Creative Scotland's hand is somewhat forced. However, the eradication of flexible funding has, she believes, moved those 49 organisations from \"a condition of modest security, into a condition of complete insecurity\".McMillan argues that the new plan demonstrates \"a kind of undead Thatcherism \u2026 and imposes a crude ethic of sado-competition \u2013 \"this will make you sharper and more competitive\" \u2013 on areas of society where co-operation, synergy and mutual respect clearly matter more.\" McMillan goes on to say that Creative Scotland has tinkered where it ought to have rethought and increased the creative control of funding bodies over artists themselves.Meanwhile, Simon Tait's latest diary-entry for Arts Industry speculates on the future of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, writing that should Jeremy Hunt resign in the wake of his Leveson Inquiry appearance. Tait suggest two alternatives. First, that the DCMS \"cannot be disbanded until after the Olympics,\" meaning \"a new secretary of state will have to be installed\" and granted a decent tenure. Alternatively, though, he also proposes the possibility that Hunt's resignation triggers its immediate abolishment, with responsibilities divvied up over the Jubilee weekend. Well, stranger things have happened.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Arts funding"], "title": "Noises off: Outcry over Creative Scotland review"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-01T16:11:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " A fortnight ago, Creative Scotland blew any goodwill it had built up with the announcement of its latest funding review. Of the 74 arts organisations that had received flexible funding, grants of between \u00a355,000 and \u00a3300,000 covering two years, 49 will now have to compete on a project-by-project basis. Among them are award-winning theatre companies Vanishing Point and the Edinburgh-based site-specifists Grid Iron.Chief Executive Andrew Dixon has blogged in explanation : \"We have confirmed secure funding for 25 organisations, three of them as Foundations and 22 as Annual Clients with budgets set aside for three years. The other 49 organisations have secure budgets until April 2013 and will have access to bid into \u00a311m of lottery budgets each year.\" The alternative, he says, was losing 20 per cent of those companies outright. Despite a government cut of \u00a32.1m, the increased lottery money means that more funding will be available.But the question being asked is, \"At what cost?\" And it's being asked by many people. \"I've found noone \u2013 artist, producer, journalist, writer, musician \u2013 who is in favour of these changes,\" writes playwright David Greig in an open letter posted on his blog . Calling for a complete suspension of the plans, Greig suggests that a great deal of opposition is going unvoiced \"because [artists and producers] fear they will be left exposed in future funding decisions.\"At her personal blog, the Scotsman's theatre critic Joyce McMillan lays out what she calls the review's \"three deadly sins\". First, she stresses that lottery money can only be used for one-off projects, so Creative Scotland's hand is somewhat forced. However, the eradication of flexible funding has, she believes, moved those 49 organisations from \"a condition of modest security, into a condition of complete insecurity\".McMillan argues that the new plan demonstrates \"a kind of undead Thatcherism \u2026 and imposes a crude ethic of sado-competition \u2013 \"this will make you sharper and more competitive\" \u2013 on areas of society where co-operation, synergy and mutual respect clearly matter more.\" McMillan goes on to say that Creative Scotland has tinkered where it ought to have rethought and increased the creative control of funding bodies over artists themselves.Meanwhile, Simon Tait's latest diary-entry for Arts Industry speculates on the future of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, writing that should Jeremy Hunt resign in the wake of his Leveson Inquiry appearance. Tait suggest two alternatives. First, that the DCMS \"cannot be disbanded until after the Olympics,\" meaning \"a new secretary of state will have to be installed\" and granted a decent tenure. Alternatively, though, he also proposes the possibility that Hunt's resignation triggers its immediate abolishment, with responsibilities divvied up over the Jubilee weekend. Well, stranger things have happened.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Arts funding"], "title": "Noises off: Outcry over Creative Scotland review"},{"date": "2012-05-11T21:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It wasn't just the remote and beautiful Highlands setting, the days spent immersed in nature, yoga, arts and crafts, or even the wholesome home-cooked food that made this relaxation week the perfect antidote to urban living. Its unquantifiable but invaluable USP was that it was provided by a couple who, with a complete absence of corporate front, clearly love doing what they do.Any nerves I had about spending a week with a group of people I'd never met were calmed from the off by the twinkly-eyed Alex, one half of Wild Rose Escapes, whose effortless friendliness seemed to bode well.He met the guests at Inverness station and drove us through Drumnadrochit, on the north shore of Loch Ness, and up a track to the beautifully converted Polmaily Steading, our hideaway for the week. We were greeted with wide smiles by Rosie, who led us through the huge open living area where logs burned invitingly on an open fire and comfy russet-coloured sofas beckoned.In the large, country-style kitchen we sat around the table while Rosie served tea and freshly baked lemon cake. Rosie outlined the week ahead, emphasising that no one had to take part in any activity if they didn't want to. I briefly considered spending my visit doing nothing more than exploring the steading's cosy nooks with an armful of novels.After a dinner of quiche, salads and baked pears and plums, I headed for my pleasingly simple and very quiet room. I slept for nine hours that first night, a third more than my usual quota. At 8.30 the next morning, music lured me downstairs to where Joany, the yoga teacher, had laid out mats for some \"wee stretches and postures\". After an hour, knots in my neck and back were singing to me and I made a rash promise to myself to join a yoga class back home.Breakfast was a leisurely affair with more of Rosie's astonishing array of homemade goodies \u2013 granola, bread, jam, marmalade, chutney, hummus, and chunky flapjacks. It was a civilised 11.30am before the six guests climbed aboard the people carrier for the day's outing. I stared out of the window at mile after mile of Loch Ness while Rosie chatted knowledgeably about indigenous and imported trees. At Glen Affric, we meandered around the stunning landscape where lichen shrouded the trees like pale green snow amid a blaze of autumn colour. After an untaxing walk of around 45 minutes, we picnicked overlooking the River Affric, warmed by a giant flask of tea from Rosie's rucksack, and then returned home.Our days alternated between outings to a beauty spot \u2013 including the spectacular Plodda Falls, one of the highest in Scotland \u2013 and holing up in the steading for arts and crafts. I'd never tried batik, the Indonesian dyeing technique, and battled with inner doubts about not being able to draw before immersing myself in paints, crayons and melted wax, which we drizzled over plain canvas bags with pipe-like tools.The next day we dipped the bags in indigo dye and later ironed off the wax that had protected sections of the bag from the dye. I did feel a surge of delight at the end result, but couldn't help thinking, churlishly, that our efforts would probably fetch less than \u00a35 on a market stall. I also found myself calculating the effort-to-potential-profit ratio when we spent the best part of a day felting \u2013 making a template, picking bits of coloured wool to lay on the template, doing this again at right angles to the first layer of wool and a third time in the original direction, then soaking it all with water, placing bubble wrap on top, and soaping and rubbing this for an hour or two until my wrists were red raw.But even though I'm not about to quit my day job, I felt pretty proud of my rainbow creation and \u2013 this is really the point \u2013 there is something about the rhythm of creativity that utilises the unthinking part of our brain and calms the mind.But Rosie's passion for getting back to basics and making things from scratch really became evident the day we went foraging. After collecting sorrel, nettle and chickweed, we took the plants to the caravan where Rosie and Alex live with their baby, Thora. It has no running water or electricity and the compost toilet is a short walk away but Alex lit a fire \u2013 using a stainless steel tool, tree bark and an old wasps' nest, but no matches \u2013 and a meal of buckwheat stew with our hand-picked greens followed surprisingly quickly.\"She hates convenience,\" said Alex when I asked him what had drawn this couple from Wiltshire \u2013 they were at school together and both studied archaeology \u2013 to such a remote and harsh environment. But while Rosie is evidently as tough as boots herself, she took great care of us, making sure we were comfortable and inquiring what each of us wanted to do each day. She was never too busy to talk or take an interest in our lives.Each day Rosie conjured up some new culinary treat, culminating with a birthday cake for her friend and guest, Lucy, on the last day. Rosie had bought chocolate buttons to decorate it but at the last minute beckoned me outside to help her pick berries and leaves for the cake instead, and left me to arrange them. She also taught us to make bread and, while she cooked the evening meal, dictated recipes to me so that I could try them at home.She also produced mulled wine for us to sup around the fire one evening as we listened to a visiting storyteller. Other evenings included a facial massage class \u2013 using Joany's homemade, oil-infused creams \u2013 and a relaxation session. I can't tell you anything about that one because I fell fast sleep within minutes of it starting. On the final day, Rosie taught us a word/mime game and the conviviality of the week reached a peak.How on earth, I wondered, did Rosie manage to accomplish so much and remain so attentive, informative, sweet-tempered \u2013 and relaxed?\"This brings together everything I love,\" said Rosie, who worked in catering and tourism before setting up her own business with Alex. All Wild Rose Escapes are an immersion in Rosie's favourite things, delivered with the love and attention of an enthusiast. Lucy later revealed to me, entirely unsurprisingly, that Rosie had also once worked as a counsellor.There is an entire industry devoted to the art of relaxation, but Rosie and Alex delivered this retreat in a way that completely epitomised the worth of the concept. I returned to my normal life feeling slightly rueful that I am not, in fact, Rosie, but grateful for the sprinkling of her aura that I was taking home.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wild Rose Escapes (07765 173029, wildrose-escapes.co.uk). It runs relaxation weeks on 19-26 May, 8-15 September and 13-20 October. It also offers tailor-made weeks for groups of friends and families. The cost in both cases is from \u00a3695pp, including seven nights' full-board. EasyJet (easyjet.com) provided flights. It flies to Inverness from Bristol, Gatwick and Luton from \u00a344 return", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Scotland for the soul"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-01T16:11:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " A fortnight ago, Creative Scotland blew any goodwill it had built up with the announcement of its latest funding review. Of the 74 arts organisations that had received flexible funding, grants of between \u00a355,000 and \u00a3300,000 covering two years, 49 will now have to compete on a project-by-project basis. Among them are award-winning theatre companies Vanishing Point and the Edinburgh-based site-specifists Grid Iron.Chief Executive Andrew Dixon has blogged in explanation : \"We have confirmed secure funding for 25 organisations, three of them as Foundations and 22 as Annual Clients with budgets set aside for three years. The other 49 organisations have secure budgets until April 2013 and will have access to bid into \u00a311m of lottery budgets each year.\" The alternative, he says, was losing 20 per cent of those companies outright. Despite a government cut of \u00a32.1m, the increased lottery money means that more funding will be available.But the question being asked is, \"At what cost?\" And it's being asked by many people. \"I've found noone \u2013 artist, producer, journalist, writer, musician \u2013 who is in favour of these changes,\" writes playwright David Greig in an open letter posted on his blog . Calling for a complete suspension of the plans, Greig suggests that a great deal of opposition is going unvoiced \"because [artists and producers] fear they will be left exposed in future funding decisions.\"At her personal blog, the Scotsman's theatre critic Joyce McMillan lays out what she calls the review's \"three deadly sins\". First, she stresses that lottery money can only be used for one-off projects, so Creative Scotland's hand is somewhat forced. However, the eradication of flexible funding has, she believes, moved those 49 organisations from \"a condition of modest security, into a condition of complete insecurity\".McMillan argues that the new plan demonstrates \"a kind of undead Thatcherism \u2026 and imposes a crude ethic of sado-competition \u2013 \"this will make you sharper and more competitive\" \u2013 on areas of society where co-operation, synergy and mutual respect clearly matter more.\" McMillan goes on to say that Creative Scotland has tinkered where it ought to have rethought and increased the creative control of funding bodies over artists themselves.Meanwhile, Simon Tait's latest diary-entry for Arts Industry speculates on the future of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, writing that should Jeremy Hunt resign in the wake of his Leveson Inquiry appearance. Tait suggest two alternatives. First, that the DCMS \"cannot be disbanded until after the Olympics,\" meaning \"a new secretary of state will have to be installed\" and granted a decent tenure. Alternatively, though, he also proposes the possibility that Hunt's resignation triggers its immediate abolishment, with responsibilities divvied up over the Jubilee weekend. Well, stranger things have happened.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Arts funding"], "title": "Noises off: Outcry over Creative Scotland review"},{"date": "2012-05-11T21:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It wasn't just the remote and beautiful Highlands setting, the days spent immersed in nature, yoga, arts and crafts, or even the wholesome home-cooked food that made this relaxation week the perfect antidote to urban living. Its unquantifiable but invaluable USP was that it was provided by a couple who, with a complete absence of corporate front, clearly love doing what they do.Any nerves I had about spending a week with a group of people I'd never met were calmed from the off by the twinkly-eyed Alex, one half of Wild Rose Escapes, whose effortless friendliness seemed to bode well.He met the guests at Inverness station and drove us through Drumnadrochit, on the north shore of Loch Ness, and up a track to the beautifully converted Polmaily Steading, our hideaway for the week. We were greeted with wide smiles by Rosie, who led us through the huge open living area where logs burned invitingly on an open fire and comfy russet-coloured sofas beckoned.In the large, country-style kitchen we sat around the table while Rosie served tea and freshly baked lemon cake. Rosie outlined the week ahead, emphasising that no one had to take part in any activity if they didn't want to. I briefly considered spending my visit doing nothing more than exploring the steading's cosy nooks with an armful of novels.After a dinner of quiche, salads and baked pears and plums, I headed for my pleasingly simple and very quiet room. I slept for nine hours that first night, a third more than my usual quota. At 8.30 the next morning, music lured me downstairs to where Joany, the yoga teacher, had laid out mats for some \"wee stretches and postures\". After an hour, knots in my neck and back were singing to me and I made a rash promise to myself to join a yoga class back home.Breakfast was a leisurely affair with more of Rosie's astonishing array of homemade goodies \u2013 granola, bread, jam, marmalade, chutney, hummus, and chunky flapjacks. It was a civilised 11.30am before the six guests climbed aboard the people carrier for the day's outing. I stared out of the window at mile after mile of Loch Ness while Rosie chatted knowledgeably about indigenous and imported trees. At Glen Affric, we meandered around the stunning landscape where lichen shrouded the trees like pale green snow amid a blaze of autumn colour. After an untaxing walk of around 45 minutes, we picnicked overlooking the River Affric, warmed by a giant flask of tea from Rosie's rucksack, and then returned home.Our days alternated between outings to a beauty spot \u2013 including the spectacular Plodda Falls, one of the highest in Scotland \u2013 and holing up in the steading for arts and crafts. I'd never tried batik, the Indonesian dyeing technique, and battled with inner doubts about not being able to draw before immersing myself in paints, crayons and melted wax, which we drizzled over plain canvas bags with pipe-like tools.The next day we dipped the bags in indigo dye and later ironed off the wax that had protected sections of the bag from the dye. I did feel a surge of delight at the end result, but couldn't help thinking, churlishly, that our efforts would probably fetch less than \u00a35 on a market stall. I also found myself calculating the effort-to-potential-profit ratio when we spent the best part of a day felting \u2013 making a template, picking bits of coloured wool to lay on the template, doing this again at right angles to the first layer of wool and a third time in the original direction, then soaking it all with water, placing bubble wrap on top, and soaping and rubbing this for an hour or two until my wrists were red raw.But even though I'm not about to quit my day job, I felt pretty proud of my rainbow creation and \u2013 this is really the point \u2013 there is something about the rhythm of creativity that utilises the unthinking part of our brain and calms the mind.But Rosie's passion for getting back to basics and making things from scratch really became evident the day we went foraging. After collecting sorrel, nettle and chickweed, we took the plants to the caravan where Rosie and Alex live with their baby, Thora. It has no running water or electricity and the compost toilet is a short walk away but Alex lit a fire \u2013 using a stainless steel tool, tree bark and an old wasps' nest, but no matches \u2013 and a meal of buckwheat stew with our hand-picked greens followed surprisingly quickly.\"She hates convenience,\" said Alex when I asked him what had drawn this couple from Wiltshire \u2013 they were at school together and both studied archaeology \u2013 to such a remote and harsh environment. But while Rosie is evidently as tough as boots herself, she took great care of us, making sure we were comfortable and inquiring what each of us wanted to do each day. She was never too busy to talk or take an interest in our lives.Each day Rosie conjured up some new culinary treat, culminating with a birthday cake for her friend and guest, Lucy, on the last day. Rosie had bought chocolate buttons to decorate it but at the last minute beckoned me outside to help her pick berries and leaves for the cake instead, and left me to arrange them. She also taught us to make bread and, while she cooked the evening meal, dictated recipes to me so that I could try them at home.She also produced mulled wine for us to sup around the fire one evening as we listened to a visiting storyteller. Other evenings included a facial massage class \u2013 using Joany's homemade, oil-infused creams \u2013 and a relaxation session. I can't tell you anything about that one because I fell fast sleep within minutes of it starting. On the final day, Rosie taught us a word/mime game and the conviviality of the week reached a peak.How on earth, I wondered, did Rosie manage to accomplish so much and remain so attentive, informative, sweet-tempered \u2013 and relaxed?\"This brings together everything I love,\" said Rosie, who worked in catering and tourism before setting up her own business with Alex. All Wild Rose Escapes are an immersion in Rosie's favourite things, delivered with the love and attention of an enthusiast. Lucy later revealed to me, entirely unsurprisingly, that Rosie had also once worked as a counsellor.There is an entire industry devoted to the art of relaxation, but Rosie and Alex delivered this retreat in a way that completely epitomised the worth of the concept. I returned to my normal life feeling slightly rueful that I am not, in fact, Rosie, but grateful for the sprinkling of her aura that I was taking home.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wild Rose Escapes (07765 173029, wildrose-escapes.co.uk). It runs relaxation weeks on 19-26 May, 8-15 September and 13-20 October. It also offers tailor-made weeks for groups of friends and families. The cost in both cases is from \u00a3695pp, including seven nights' full-board. EasyJet (easyjet.com) provided flights. It flies to Inverness from Bristol, Gatwick and Luton from \u00a344 return", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Scotland for the soul"},{"date": "2012-04-05T19:41:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The police van, filled with eight officers, pulled up beside the black Citro\u00ebn, on the corner of a residential street in east London, at around 6pm. It should have been a routine stop and search, one of hundreds taking place on 11 August as police tried to keep the streets quiet after three nights of intense rioting.Instead, the events that were about to unfold on the street, and later in nearby Forest Gate police station, would, eight months on, plunge Scotland Yard into a race controversy and ignite a public debate on how police treat young black men.At least two Newham borough officers in the van parked on Routh Street, in Beckton, are now suspected of involvement in serious assaults on two young black men, in separate incidents that same night.One, 21-year-old Mauro Demetrio, used his mobile phone to record an officer racially abusing him and said he was \"strangled\" in the police van. The other, Terelle Ferguson, 15 at the time, alleges he was strangled, as well as kicked, dragged across the floor and kneed in the back, and suffers a long-term injury.The vexed question of race allegedly played out in different but disturbing ways in two cases. Demetrio's recording captures one of the officers, PC Alex MacFarlane, subject him to a series of racial insults, at one point telling him: \"The problem with you is you will always be a nigger.\"Ferguson said that when he complained to MacFarlane about the way he was being treated, the officer said: \"You're just being racist, little boy. You're being racist.\"This week, the Crown Prosecution Service confirmed that two urgent reviews were underway into advice it gave over the prospects of prosecuting police officers allegedly implicated in both cases.Meanwhile, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, urged all 48,000 staff in the force to report inappropriate behaviour, warning: \"I will not stand for any racism or racists in the Met.\"Within a day, three other policemen in east London had been placed on restricted duties for allegedly making racist comments between January and March in a separate incident. On Thursday night a further five cases were referred to the police watchdog.The story starts just after the riots in the summer of 2011. Shortly after seeing the van containing eight officers, Demetrio said he pulled over to the side of the road. He describes seeing police rushing toward his car. \"They seemed twitchy because of the riots,\" he said. \"There were a lot of police cars in the area at that time and the officers seemed fired up.\"Demetrio was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs \u2013 an accusation later dropped \u2013 and handcuffed and placed in the back of the van. He alleges that, while inside the vehicle and surrounded by other officers, he was assaulted, his head pushed against the van window. He says an officer put his knees on his chest and began strangling him. Shortly after Demetrio turned on the voice recorder on his mobile phone. He managed to make two recordings, lasting in all about 12 minutes. They give a few verbal exchanges between Demetrio and the officers over several minutes and are interspersed with long silences and the crackling sound of police radios.Demetrio occasionally raises his voice to complain about his treatment, and insults the officers. Asked to explain why he \"strangled\" Demetrio, an officer replies \"cos you're a cunt\", adding that he was \"kicking out\". The officer adds: \"Stopped you though, didn't it?\"Minutes later MacFarlane begins abusing Demetrio, using the offensive racist slur. Angered, Demetrio reads out MacFarlane's badge number (KF05) and complains that he had subjected him to racist comments: \"I'll always be a nigger \u2013 that's what you said, yeah?\"MacFarlane replies: \"You'll always have black skin colour. Don't hide behind your colour, yeah.\" He adds: \"Be proud. Be proud of who you are, yeah. Don't hide behind your black skin.\"The excerpts released by the Guardian last week have been listened to hundreds of thousands of times and prompted public outrage. Amid the public furore over the recording questions have been raised about why the other officers in the van did not report their colleague racially abusing Demetrio. The Guardian understands that when investigators questioned the seven other officers in the van about the incident they all claimed not to have heard MacFarlane make racist remarks.The Met says it cannot comment on the details: \"This matter is the subject of an independent IPCC investigation and it would be inappropriate to discuss any alleged details prior to their investigation being completed,\" said a spokesman on Thursday yesterday.Hogan-Howe, however, clearly believes the case raises important questions about accountability. \"We have a duty to challenge or report any behaviour by colleagues which is less than the high standard demanded by the service and Londoners themselves,\" he said in his address to staff. \"You cannot avoid that duty. Nor can I.\"The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which investigated Demetrio's case, referred the matter to the CPS in January, after concluding that three officers may have co mmitted criminal offences. They were MacFarlane, identified as the officer making the racist remarks, and two others suspected of involvement in the alleged assault on Demetrio in the van: PC Joe Harrington and a constable known as Officer C.The CPS initially decided not to bring charges against any of the officers. Senior lawyers at the CPS are now reviewing the case and MacFarlane has been suspended.The paths of Demetrio and Ferguson crossed in the caged cell adjacent to the custody section of Forest Gate police station. The two had never met before. Demetrio had just arrived at the police station after the alleged assault in the van. He later handed in his mobile phone to custody desk officers and pleaded with them to investigate his treatment by Harrington and MacFarlane.Demetrio claimed he saw Harrington allegedly assault Ferguson, a 15-year-old from east London. Demetrio later told investigators he saw Harrington kick the teenager in the back of the leg and, once he was on the floor, knee him in the back.Ferguson had been transferred to Forest Gate from a police station in Stratford, east London, where he was arrested earlier in the day after being asked to attend the police station. The matter for which he was wanted has since been dropped.Ferguson, now 16, this week provided the Guardian with a detailed account of his complaint against the police. He says he saw Demetrio brought into the caged area in handcuffs: \"He looked quiet. Reserved. Something was up.\"Ferguson claims he recognised Harrington as a police officer who had strangled him during a stop and search incident two days earlier, though Harrington says he had had no contact with him then.Harrington's lawyers also point out that he is currently not charged with anything. \"PC Harrington has been advised that he is not to be the subject of any criminal proceedings in relation to allegations made concerning events in the custody area on the 11 August 2011,\" they said in a statement.MacFarlane's lawyers said: \"PC MacFarlane was advised by IPCC investigators on the 20 December 2011 that he was not regarded as a suspect in relation to allegations made by the 15-year-old youth, but in fact was being treated as a witness. He has, therefore, never been interviewed under criminal caution in relation to any allegation made by this individual. We consider it inappropriate at the present time to comment further in relation to the complaints made by Mr Demetrio.\"Days after the alleged assault, Ferguson lodged an complaint with the IPCC. The police watchdog initially supervised a Met police inquiry into Ferguson's complaint; CCTV was obtained, although it is believed to have captured only part of the alleged assault.At an early stage investigators consulted the CPS about Ferguson's case, and prosecutors advised there was no realistic prospect of convicting Harrington for common assault.Then in October, when investigators realised that Ferguson and Demetrio's cases were connected, the IPCC upgraded the inquiry to an independent investigation. That inquiry has been completed and was submitted to the Met on Tuesday.The report is understood to deal mainly with the actions of Harrington and to recommend that the officer, who is currently on restricted duties, is disciplined.However, there remains a possibility that Harrington will be prosecuted over the alleged assault on Ferguson.The Crown Prosecution Service announced an urgent review into the cases, and is reconsidering the advice it gave over the prospects for bringing a criminal charge against Harrington. The CPS said a senior lawyer was now reviewing the case, including evidence that was not available the first time around.", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Race issues", "London", "Police", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Scotland Yard's racism allegations unfolded"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-01T16:11:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " A fortnight ago, Creative Scotland blew any goodwill it had built up with the announcement of its latest funding review. Of the 74 arts organisations that had received flexible funding, grants of between \u00a355,000 and \u00a3300,000 covering two years, 49 will now have to compete on a project-by-project basis. Among them are award-winning theatre companies Vanishing Point and the Edinburgh-based site-specifists Grid Iron.Chief Executive Andrew Dixon has blogged in explanation : \"We have confirmed secure funding for 25 organisations, three of them as Foundations and 22 as Annual Clients with budgets set aside for three years. The other 49 organisations have secure budgets until April 2013 and will have access to bid into \u00a311m of lottery budgets each year.\" The alternative, he says, was losing 20 per cent of those companies outright. Despite a government cut of \u00a32.1m, the increased lottery money means that more funding will be available.But the question being asked is, \"At what cost?\" And it's being asked by many people. \"I've found noone \u2013 artist, producer, journalist, writer, musician \u2013 who is in favour of these changes,\" writes playwright David Greig in an open letter posted on his blog . Calling for a complete suspension of the plans, Greig suggests that a great deal of opposition is going unvoiced \"because [artists and producers] fear they will be left exposed in future funding decisions.\"At her personal blog, the Scotsman's theatre critic Joyce McMillan lays out what she calls the review's \"three deadly sins\". First, she stresses that lottery money can only be used for one-off projects, so Creative Scotland's hand is somewhat forced. However, the eradication of flexible funding has, she believes, moved those 49 organisations from \"a condition of modest security, into a condition of complete insecurity\".McMillan argues that the new plan demonstrates \"a kind of undead Thatcherism \u2026 and imposes a crude ethic of sado-competition \u2013 \"this will make you sharper and more competitive\" \u2013 on areas of society where co-operation, synergy and mutual respect clearly matter more.\" McMillan goes on to say that Creative Scotland has tinkered where it ought to have rethought and increased the creative control of funding bodies over artists themselves.Meanwhile, Simon Tait's latest diary-entry for Arts Industry speculates on the future of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, writing that should Jeremy Hunt resign in the wake of his Leveson Inquiry appearance. Tait suggest two alternatives. First, that the DCMS \"cannot be disbanded until after the Olympics,\" meaning \"a new secretary of state will have to be installed\" and granted a decent tenure. Alternatively, though, he also proposes the possibility that Hunt's resignation triggers its immediate abolishment, with responsibilities divvied up over the Jubilee weekend. Well, stranger things have happened.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Arts funding"], "title": "Noises off: Outcry over Creative Scotland review"},{"date": "2012-05-11T21:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It wasn't just the remote and beautiful Highlands setting, the days spent immersed in nature, yoga, arts and crafts, or even the wholesome home-cooked food that made this relaxation week the perfect antidote to urban living. Its unquantifiable but invaluable USP was that it was provided by a couple who, with a complete absence of corporate front, clearly love doing what they do.Any nerves I had about spending a week with a group of people I'd never met were calmed from the off by the twinkly-eyed Alex, one half of Wild Rose Escapes, whose effortless friendliness seemed to bode well.He met the guests at Inverness station and drove us through Drumnadrochit, on the north shore of Loch Ness, and up a track to the beautifully converted Polmaily Steading, our hideaway for the week. We were greeted with wide smiles by Rosie, who led us through the huge open living area where logs burned invitingly on an open fire and comfy russet-coloured sofas beckoned.In the large, country-style kitchen we sat around the table while Rosie served tea and freshly baked lemon cake. Rosie outlined the week ahead, emphasising that no one had to take part in any activity if they didn't want to. I briefly considered spending my visit doing nothing more than exploring the steading's cosy nooks with an armful of novels.After a dinner of quiche, salads and baked pears and plums, I headed for my pleasingly simple and very quiet room. I slept for nine hours that first night, a third more than my usual quota. At 8.30 the next morning, music lured me downstairs to where Joany, the yoga teacher, had laid out mats for some \"wee stretches and postures\". After an hour, knots in my neck and back were singing to me and I made a rash promise to myself to join a yoga class back home.Breakfast was a leisurely affair with more of Rosie's astonishing array of homemade goodies \u2013 granola, bread, jam, marmalade, chutney, hummus, and chunky flapjacks. It was a civilised 11.30am before the six guests climbed aboard the people carrier for the day's outing. I stared out of the window at mile after mile of Loch Ness while Rosie chatted knowledgeably about indigenous and imported trees. At Glen Affric, we meandered around the stunning landscape where lichen shrouded the trees like pale green snow amid a blaze of autumn colour. After an untaxing walk of around 45 minutes, we picnicked overlooking the River Affric, warmed by a giant flask of tea from Rosie's rucksack, and then returned home.Our days alternated between outings to a beauty spot \u2013 including the spectacular Plodda Falls, one of the highest in Scotland \u2013 and holing up in the steading for arts and crafts. I'd never tried batik, the Indonesian dyeing technique, and battled with inner doubts about not being able to draw before immersing myself in paints, crayons and melted wax, which we drizzled over plain canvas bags with pipe-like tools.The next day we dipped the bags in indigo dye and later ironed off the wax that had protected sections of the bag from the dye. I did feel a surge of delight at the end result, but couldn't help thinking, churlishly, that our efforts would probably fetch less than \u00a35 on a market stall. I also found myself calculating the effort-to-potential-profit ratio when we spent the best part of a day felting \u2013 making a template, picking bits of coloured wool to lay on the template, doing this again at right angles to the first layer of wool and a third time in the original direction, then soaking it all with water, placing bubble wrap on top, and soaping and rubbing this for an hour or two until my wrists were red raw.But even though I'm not about to quit my day job, I felt pretty proud of my rainbow creation and \u2013 this is really the point \u2013 there is something about the rhythm of creativity that utilises the unthinking part of our brain and calms the mind.But Rosie's passion for getting back to basics and making things from scratch really became evident the day we went foraging. After collecting sorrel, nettle and chickweed, we took the plants to the caravan where Rosie and Alex live with their baby, Thora. It has no running water or electricity and the compost toilet is a short walk away but Alex lit a fire \u2013 using a stainless steel tool, tree bark and an old wasps' nest, but no matches \u2013 and a meal of buckwheat stew with our hand-picked greens followed surprisingly quickly.\"She hates convenience,\" said Alex when I asked him what had drawn this couple from Wiltshire \u2013 they were at school together and both studied archaeology \u2013 to such a remote and harsh environment. But while Rosie is evidently as tough as boots herself, she took great care of us, making sure we were comfortable and inquiring what each of us wanted to do each day. She was never too busy to talk or take an interest in our lives.Each day Rosie conjured up some new culinary treat, culminating with a birthday cake for her friend and guest, Lucy, on the last day. Rosie had bought chocolate buttons to decorate it but at the last minute beckoned me outside to help her pick berries and leaves for the cake instead, and left me to arrange them. She also taught us to make bread and, while she cooked the evening meal, dictated recipes to me so that I could try them at home.She also produced mulled wine for us to sup around the fire one evening as we listened to a visiting storyteller. Other evenings included a facial massage class \u2013 using Joany's homemade, oil-infused creams \u2013 and a relaxation session. I can't tell you anything about that one because I fell fast sleep within minutes of it starting. On the final day, Rosie taught us a word/mime game and the conviviality of the week reached a peak.How on earth, I wondered, did Rosie manage to accomplish so much and remain so attentive, informative, sweet-tempered \u2013 and relaxed?\"This brings together everything I love,\" said Rosie, who worked in catering and tourism before setting up her own business with Alex. All Wild Rose Escapes are an immersion in Rosie's favourite things, delivered with the love and attention of an enthusiast. Lucy later revealed to me, entirely unsurprisingly, that Rosie had also once worked as a counsellor.There is an entire industry devoted to the art of relaxation, but Rosie and Alex delivered this retreat in a way that completely epitomised the worth of the concept. I returned to my normal life feeling slightly rueful that I am not, in fact, Rosie, but grateful for the sprinkling of her aura that I was taking home.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wild Rose Escapes (07765 173029, wildrose-escapes.co.uk). It runs relaxation weeks on 19-26 May, 8-15 September and 13-20 October. It also offers tailor-made weeks for groups of friends and families. The cost in both cases is from \u00a3695pp, including seven nights' full-board. EasyJet (easyjet.com) provided flights. It flies to Inverness from Bristol, Gatwick and Luton from \u00a344 return", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Scotland for the soul"},{"date": "2012-04-05T19:41:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The police van, filled with eight officers, pulled up beside the black Citro\u00ebn, on the corner of a residential street in east London, at around 6pm. It should have been a routine stop and search, one of hundreds taking place on 11 August as police tried to keep the streets quiet after three nights of intense rioting.Instead, the events that were about to unfold on the street, and later in nearby Forest Gate police station, would, eight months on, plunge Scotland Yard into a race controversy and ignite a public debate on how police treat young black men.At least two Newham borough officers in the van parked on Routh Street, in Beckton, are now suspected of involvement in serious assaults on two young black men, in separate incidents that same night.One, 21-year-old Mauro Demetrio, used his mobile phone to record an officer racially abusing him and said he was \"strangled\" in the police van. The other, Terelle Ferguson, 15 at the time, alleges he was strangled, as well as kicked, dragged across the floor and kneed in the back, and suffers a long-term injury.The vexed question of race allegedly played out in different but disturbing ways in two cases. Demetrio's recording captures one of the officers, PC Alex MacFarlane, subject him to a series of racial insults, at one point telling him: \"The problem with you is you will always be a nigger.\"Ferguson said that when he complained to MacFarlane about the way he was being treated, the officer said: \"You're just being racist, little boy. You're being racist.\"This week, the Crown Prosecution Service confirmed that two urgent reviews were underway into advice it gave over the prospects of prosecuting police officers allegedly implicated in both cases.Meanwhile, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, urged all 48,000 staff in the force to report inappropriate behaviour, warning: \"I will not stand for any racism or racists in the Met.\"Within a day, three other policemen in east London had been placed on restricted duties for allegedly making racist comments between January and March in a separate incident. On Thursday night a further five cases were referred to the police watchdog.The story starts just after the riots in the summer of 2011. Shortly after seeing the van containing eight officers, Demetrio said he pulled over to the side of the road. He describes seeing police rushing toward his car. \"They seemed twitchy because of the riots,\" he said. \"There were a lot of police cars in the area at that time and the officers seemed fired up.\"Demetrio was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs \u2013 an accusation later dropped \u2013 and handcuffed and placed in the back of the van. He alleges that, while inside the vehicle and surrounded by other officers, he was assaulted, his head pushed against the van window. He says an officer put his knees on his chest and began strangling him. Shortly after Demetrio turned on the voice recorder on his mobile phone. He managed to make two recordings, lasting in all about 12 minutes. They give a few verbal exchanges between Demetrio and the officers over several minutes and are interspersed with long silences and the crackling sound of police radios.Demetrio occasionally raises his voice to complain about his treatment, and insults the officers. Asked to explain why he \"strangled\" Demetrio, an officer replies \"cos you're a cunt\", adding that he was \"kicking out\". The officer adds: \"Stopped you though, didn't it?\"Minutes later MacFarlane begins abusing Demetrio, using the offensive racist slur. Angered, Demetrio reads out MacFarlane's badge number (KF05) and complains that he had subjected him to racist comments: \"I'll always be a nigger \u2013 that's what you said, yeah?\"MacFarlane replies: \"You'll always have black skin colour. Don't hide behind your colour, yeah.\" He adds: \"Be proud. Be proud of who you are, yeah. Don't hide behind your black skin.\"The excerpts released by the Guardian last week have been listened to hundreds of thousands of times and prompted public outrage. Amid the public furore over the recording questions have been raised about why the other officers in the van did not report their colleague racially abusing Demetrio. The Guardian understands that when investigators questioned the seven other officers in the van about the incident they all claimed not to have heard MacFarlane make racist remarks.The Met says it cannot comment on the details: \"This matter is the subject of an independent IPCC investigation and it would be inappropriate to discuss any alleged details prior to their investigation being completed,\" said a spokesman on Thursday yesterday.Hogan-Howe, however, clearly believes the case raises important questions about accountability. \"We have a duty to challenge or report any behaviour by colleagues which is less than the high standard demanded by the service and Londoners themselves,\" he said in his address to staff. \"You cannot avoid that duty. Nor can I.\"The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which investigated Demetrio's case, referred the matter to the CPS in January, after concluding that three officers may have co mmitted criminal offences. They were MacFarlane, identified as the officer making the racist remarks, and two others suspected of involvement in the alleged assault on Demetrio in the van: PC Joe Harrington and a constable known as Officer C.The CPS initially decided not to bring charges against any of the officers. Senior lawyers at the CPS are now reviewing the case and MacFarlane has been suspended.The paths of Demetrio and Ferguson crossed in the caged cell adjacent to the custody section of Forest Gate police station. The two had never met before. Demetrio had just arrived at the police station after the alleged assault in the van. He later handed in his mobile phone to custody desk officers and pleaded with them to investigate his treatment by Harrington and MacFarlane.Demetrio claimed he saw Harrington allegedly assault Ferguson, a 15-year-old from east London. Demetrio later told investigators he saw Harrington kick the teenager in the back of the leg and, once he was on the floor, knee him in the back.Ferguson had been transferred to Forest Gate from a police station in Stratford, east London, where he was arrested earlier in the day after being asked to attend the police station. The matter for which he was wanted has since been dropped.Ferguson, now 16, this week provided the Guardian with a detailed account of his complaint against the police. He says he saw Demetrio brought into the caged area in handcuffs: \"He looked quiet. Reserved. Something was up.\"Ferguson claims he recognised Harrington as a police officer who had strangled him during a stop and search incident two days earlier, though Harrington says he had had no contact with him then.Harrington's lawyers also point out that he is currently not charged with anything. \"PC Harrington has been advised that he is not to be the subject of any criminal proceedings in relation to allegations made concerning events in the custody area on the 11 August 2011,\" they said in a statement.MacFarlane's lawyers said: \"PC MacFarlane was advised by IPCC investigators on the 20 December 2011 that he was not regarded as a suspect in relation to allegations made by the 15-year-old youth, but in fact was being treated as a witness. He has, therefore, never been interviewed under criminal caution in relation to any allegation made by this individual. We consider it inappropriate at the present time to comment further in relation to the complaints made by Mr Demetrio.\"Days after the alleged assault, Ferguson lodged an complaint with the IPCC. The police watchdog initially supervised a Met police inquiry into Ferguson's complaint; CCTV was obtained, although it is believed to have captured only part of the alleged assault.At an early stage investigators consulted the CPS about Ferguson's case, and prosecutors advised there was no realistic prospect of convicting Harrington for common assault.Then in October, when investigators realised that Ferguson and Demetrio's cases were connected, the IPCC upgraded the inquiry to an independent investigation. That inquiry has been completed and was submitted to the Met on Tuesday.The report is understood to deal mainly with the actions of Harrington and to recommend that the officer, who is currently on restricted duties, is disciplined.However, there remains a possibility that Harrington will be prosecuted over the alleged assault on Ferguson.The Crown Prosecution Service announced an urgent review into the cases, and is reconsidering the advice it gave over the prospects for bringing a criminal charge against Harrington. The CPS said a senior lawyer was now reviewing the case, including evidence that was not available the first time around.", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Race issues", "London", "Police", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Scotland Yard's racism allegations unfolded"},{"date": "2012-06-29T16:16:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The world's first experiment to investigate the impact of a breached storage tank of carbon dioxide on the marine ecosystem has been completed off the coast of Scotland. More than four and a half tonnes of carbon dioxide were pumped into the seabed to simulate a gas leak, as part of a wider investigation into the safety of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology.The experiment, led by the Plymouth Marine Laboratory, began in May and is focused on assessing the safety of CCS . The technology captures carbon dioxide from power stations before it can be emitted into the atmosphere and then sequesters it under the ocean.There are 15 CCS projects in various stages of development worldwide, but this has been the first attempt to simulate the conditions of a breach in the carbon storage tanks.For the past 30 days, CO2 has been supplied from a \"pop-up\" lab and has travelled through a borehole under the sediment to the release site, 350 metres from the shore and 12 meters below the seabed of Ardmucknish Bay, near Oban.Initial results have followed the expectations of researchers, with localised impacts that have affected some creatures, while others have so far been unaffected.The experiment's co-ordinator, Dr Henrik Stahl from the Scottish Association for Marine Science, said: \"CO2 gas has been bubbling out of the sediments over the past few weeks and we have seen a clear but localised drop of the pH in the sediments and overlying water in the bubble zone, as expected.\"Some animals, such as sea-urchins living in the sediments, seem to react negatively to the increase in CO2 whereas others, such as crabs, seem to be attracted or unaffected by the bubbles; so there could be both winners and losers in a real-life situation.\"Although the gas injection has now been turned off, the site will continue to be monitored until at least September. The researchers believe that ongoing monitoring and analysis will prove essential in furthering our understanding of how leaked CO2 moves through sediment and how the marine ecosystems would respond in such an event.", "tags": ["Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Coal", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "World's first CCS leak experiment completed in sea off Scotland"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-01T16:11:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " A fortnight ago, Creative Scotland blew any goodwill it had built up with the announcement of its latest funding review. Of the 74 arts organisations that had received flexible funding, grants of between \u00a355,000 and \u00a3300,000 covering two years, 49 will now have to compete on a project-by-project basis. Among them are award-winning theatre companies Vanishing Point and the Edinburgh-based site-specifists Grid Iron.Chief Executive Andrew Dixon has blogged in explanation : \"We have confirmed secure funding for 25 organisations, three of them as Foundations and 22 as Annual Clients with budgets set aside for three years. The other 49 organisations have secure budgets until April 2013 and will have access to bid into \u00a311m of lottery budgets each year.\" The alternative, he says, was losing 20 per cent of those companies outright. Despite a government cut of \u00a32.1m, the increased lottery money means that more funding will be available.But the question being asked is, \"At what cost?\" And it's being asked by many people. \"I've found noone \u2013 artist, producer, journalist, writer, musician \u2013 who is in favour of these changes,\" writes playwright David Greig in an open letter posted on his blog . Calling for a complete suspension of the plans, Greig suggests that a great deal of opposition is going unvoiced \"because [artists and producers] fear they will be left exposed in future funding decisions.\"At her personal blog, the Scotsman's theatre critic Joyce McMillan lays out what she calls the review's \"three deadly sins\". First, she stresses that lottery money can only be used for one-off projects, so Creative Scotland's hand is somewhat forced. However, the eradication of flexible funding has, she believes, moved those 49 organisations from \"a condition of modest security, into a condition of complete insecurity\".McMillan argues that the new plan demonstrates \"a kind of undead Thatcherism \u2026 and imposes a crude ethic of sado-competition \u2013 \"this will make you sharper and more competitive\" \u2013 on areas of society where co-operation, synergy and mutual respect clearly matter more.\" McMillan goes on to say that Creative Scotland has tinkered where it ought to have rethought and increased the creative control of funding bodies over artists themselves.Meanwhile, Simon Tait's latest diary-entry for Arts Industry speculates on the future of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, writing that should Jeremy Hunt resign in the wake of his Leveson Inquiry appearance. Tait suggest two alternatives. First, that the DCMS \"cannot be disbanded until after the Olympics,\" meaning \"a new secretary of state will have to be installed\" and granted a decent tenure. Alternatively, though, he also proposes the possibility that Hunt's resignation triggers its immediate abolishment, with responsibilities divvied up over the Jubilee weekend. Well, stranger things have happened.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Arts funding"], "title": "Noises off: Outcry over Creative Scotland review"},{"date": "2012-05-11T21:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It wasn't just the remote and beautiful Highlands setting, the days spent immersed in nature, yoga, arts and crafts, or even the wholesome home-cooked food that made this relaxation week the perfect antidote to urban living. Its unquantifiable but invaluable USP was that it was provided by a couple who, with a complete absence of corporate front, clearly love doing what they do.Any nerves I had about spending a week with a group of people I'd never met were calmed from the off by the twinkly-eyed Alex, one half of Wild Rose Escapes, whose effortless friendliness seemed to bode well.He met the guests at Inverness station and drove us through Drumnadrochit, on the north shore of Loch Ness, and up a track to the beautifully converted Polmaily Steading, our hideaway for the week. We were greeted with wide smiles by Rosie, who led us through the huge open living area where logs burned invitingly on an open fire and comfy russet-coloured sofas beckoned.In the large, country-style kitchen we sat around the table while Rosie served tea and freshly baked lemon cake. Rosie outlined the week ahead, emphasising that no one had to take part in any activity if they didn't want to. I briefly considered spending my visit doing nothing more than exploring the steading's cosy nooks with an armful of novels.After a dinner of quiche, salads and baked pears and plums, I headed for my pleasingly simple and very quiet room. I slept for nine hours that first night, a third more than my usual quota. At 8.30 the next morning, music lured me downstairs to where Joany, the yoga teacher, had laid out mats for some \"wee stretches and postures\". After an hour, knots in my neck and back were singing to me and I made a rash promise to myself to join a yoga class back home.Breakfast was a leisurely affair with more of Rosie's astonishing array of homemade goodies \u2013 granola, bread, jam, marmalade, chutney, hummus, and chunky flapjacks. It was a civilised 11.30am before the six guests climbed aboard the people carrier for the day's outing. I stared out of the window at mile after mile of Loch Ness while Rosie chatted knowledgeably about indigenous and imported trees. At Glen Affric, we meandered around the stunning landscape where lichen shrouded the trees like pale green snow amid a blaze of autumn colour. After an untaxing walk of around 45 minutes, we picnicked overlooking the River Affric, warmed by a giant flask of tea from Rosie's rucksack, and then returned home.Our days alternated between outings to a beauty spot \u2013 including the spectacular Plodda Falls, one of the highest in Scotland \u2013 and holing up in the steading for arts and crafts. I'd never tried batik, the Indonesian dyeing technique, and battled with inner doubts about not being able to draw before immersing myself in paints, crayons and melted wax, which we drizzled over plain canvas bags with pipe-like tools.The next day we dipped the bags in indigo dye and later ironed off the wax that had protected sections of the bag from the dye. I did feel a surge of delight at the end result, but couldn't help thinking, churlishly, that our efforts would probably fetch less than \u00a35 on a market stall. I also found myself calculating the effort-to-potential-profit ratio when we spent the best part of a day felting \u2013 making a template, picking bits of coloured wool to lay on the template, doing this again at right angles to the first layer of wool and a third time in the original direction, then soaking it all with water, placing bubble wrap on top, and soaping and rubbing this for an hour or two until my wrists were red raw.But even though I'm not about to quit my day job, I felt pretty proud of my rainbow creation and \u2013 this is really the point \u2013 there is something about the rhythm of creativity that utilises the unthinking part of our brain and calms the mind.But Rosie's passion for getting back to basics and making things from scratch really became evident the day we went foraging. After collecting sorrel, nettle and chickweed, we took the plants to the caravan where Rosie and Alex live with their baby, Thora. It has no running water or electricity and the compost toilet is a short walk away but Alex lit a fire \u2013 using a stainless steel tool, tree bark and an old wasps' nest, but no matches \u2013 and a meal of buckwheat stew with our hand-picked greens followed surprisingly quickly.\"She hates convenience,\" said Alex when I asked him what had drawn this couple from Wiltshire \u2013 they were at school together and both studied archaeology \u2013 to such a remote and harsh environment. But while Rosie is evidently as tough as boots herself, she took great care of us, making sure we were comfortable and inquiring what each of us wanted to do each day. She was never too busy to talk or take an interest in our lives.Each day Rosie conjured up some new culinary treat, culminating with a birthday cake for her friend and guest, Lucy, on the last day. Rosie had bought chocolate buttons to decorate it but at the last minute beckoned me outside to help her pick berries and leaves for the cake instead, and left me to arrange them. She also taught us to make bread and, while she cooked the evening meal, dictated recipes to me so that I could try them at home.She also produced mulled wine for us to sup around the fire one evening as we listened to a visiting storyteller. Other evenings included a facial massage class \u2013 using Joany's homemade, oil-infused creams \u2013 and a relaxation session. I can't tell you anything about that one because I fell fast sleep within minutes of it starting. On the final day, Rosie taught us a word/mime game and the conviviality of the week reached a peak.How on earth, I wondered, did Rosie manage to accomplish so much and remain so attentive, informative, sweet-tempered \u2013 and relaxed?\"This brings together everything I love,\" said Rosie, who worked in catering and tourism before setting up her own business with Alex. All Wild Rose Escapes are an immersion in Rosie's favourite things, delivered with the love and attention of an enthusiast. Lucy later revealed to me, entirely unsurprisingly, that Rosie had also once worked as a counsellor.There is an entire industry devoted to the art of relaxation, but Rosie and Alex delivered this retreat in a way that completely epitomised the worth of the concept. I returned to my normal life feeling slightly rueful that I am not, in fact, Rosie, but grateful for the sprinkling of her aura that I was taking home.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wild Rose Escapes (07765 173029, wildrose-escapes.co.uk). It runs relaxation weeks on 19-26 May, 8-15 September and 13-20 October. It also offers tailor-made weeks for groups of friends and families. The cost in both cases is from \u00a3695pp, including seven nights' full-board. EasyJet (easyjet.com) provided flights. It flies to Inverness from Bristol, Gatwick and Luton from \u00a344 return", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Scotland for the soul"},{"date": "2012-04-05T19:41:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The police van, filled with eight officers, pulled up beside the black Citro\u00ebn, on the corner of a residential street in east London, at around 6pm. It should have been a routine stop and search, one of hundreds taking place on 11 August as police tried to keep the streets quiet after three nights of intense rioting.Instead, the events that were about to unfold on the street, and later in nearby Forest Gate police station, would, eight months on, plunge Scotland Yard into a race controversy and ignite a public debate on how police treat young black men.At least two Newham borough officers in the van parked on Routh Street, in Beckton, are now suspected of involvement in serious assaults on two young black men, in separate incidents that same night.One, 21-year-old Mauro Demetrio, used his mobile phone to record an officer racially abusing him and said he was \"strangled\" in the police van. The other, Terelle Ferguson, 15 at the time, alleges he was strangled, as well as kicked, dragged across the floor and kneed in the back, and suffers a long-term injury.The vexed question of race allegedly played out in different but disturbing ways in two cases. Demetrio's recording captures one of the officers, PC Alex MacFarlane, subject him to a series of racial insults, at one point telling him: \"The problem with you is you will always be a nigger.\"Ferguson said that when he complained to MacFarlane about the way he was being treated, the officer said: \"You're just being racist, little boy. You're being racist.\"This week, the Crown Prosecution Service confirmed that two urgent reviews were underway into advice it gave over the prospects of prosecuting police officers allegedly implicated in both cases.Meanwhile, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, urged all 48,000 staff in the force to report inappropriate behaviour, warning: \"I will not stand for any racism or racists in the Met.\"Within a day, three other policemen in east London had been placed on restricted duties for allegedly making racist comments between January and March in a separate incident. On Thursday night a further five cases were referred to the police watchdog.The story starts just after the riots in the summer of 2011. Shortly after seeing the van containing eight officers, Demetrio said he pulled over to the side of the road. He describes seeing police rushing toward his car. \"They seemed twitchy because of the riots,\" he said. \"There were a lot of police cars in the area at that time and the officers seemed fired up.\"Demetrio was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs \u2013 an accusation later dropped \u2013 and handcuffed and placed in the back of the van. He alleges that, while inside the vehicle and surrounded by other officers, he was assaulted, his head pushed against the van window. He says an officer put his knees on his chest and began strangling him. Shortly after Demetrio turned on the voice recorder on his mobile phone. He managed to make two recordings, lasting in all about 12 minutes. They give a few verbal exchanges between Demetrio and the officers over several minutes and are interspersed with long silences and the crackling sound of police radios.Demetrio occasionally raises his voice to complain about his treatment, and insults the officers. Asked to explain why he \"strangled\" Demetrio, an officer replies \"cos you're a cunt\", adding that he was \"kicking out\". The officer adds: \"Stopped you though, didn't it?\"Minutes later MacFarlane begins abusing Demetrio, using the offensive racist slur. Angered, Demetrio reads out MacFarlane's badge number (KF05) and complains that he had subjected him to racist comments: \"I'll always be a nigger \u2013 that's what you said, yeah?\"MacFarlane replies: \"You'll always have black skin colour. Don't hide behind your colour, yeah.\" He adds: \"Be proud. Be proud of who you are, yeah. Don't hide behind your black skin.\"The excerpts released by the Guardian last week have been listened to hundreds of thousands of times and prompted public outrage. Amid the public furore over the recording questions have been raised about why the other officers in the van did not report their colleague racially abusing Demetrio. The Guardian understands that when investigators questioned the seven other officers in the van about the incident they all claimed not to have heard MacFarlane make racist remarks.The Met says it cannot comment on the details: \"This matter is the subject of an independent IPCC investigation and it would be inappropriate to discuss any alleged details prior to their investigation being completed,\" said a spokesman on Thursday yesterday.Hogan-Howe, however, clearly believes the case raises important questions about accountability. \"We have a duty to challenge or report any behaviour by colleagues which is less than the high standard demanded by the service and Londoners themselves,\" he said in his address to staff. \"You cannot avoid that duty. Nor can I.\"The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which investigated Demetrio's case, referred the matter to the CPS in January, after concluding that three officers may have co mmitted criminal offences. They were MacFarlane, identified as the officer making the racist remarks, and two others suspected of involvement in the alleged assault on Demetrio in the van: PC Joe Harrington and a constable known as Officer C.The CPS initially decided not to bring charges against any of the officers. Senior lawyers at the CPS are now reviewing the case and MacFarlane has been suspended.The paths of Demetrio and Ferguson crossed in the caged cell adjacent to the custody section of Forest Gate police station. The two had never met before. Demetrio had just arrived at the police station after the alleged assault in the van. He later handed in his mobile phone to custody desk officers and pleaded with them to investigate his treatment by Harrington and MacFarlane.Demetrio claimed he saw Harrington allegedly assault Ferguson, a 15-year-old from east London. Demetrio later told investigators he saw Harrington kick the teenager in the back of the leg and, once he was on the floor, knee him in the back.Ferguson had been transferred to Forest Gate from a police station in Stratford, east London, where he was arrested earlier in the day after being asked to attend the police station. The matter for which he was wanted has since been dropped.Ferguson, now 16, this week provided the Guardian with a detailed account of his complaint against the police. He says he saw Demetrio brought into the caged area in handcuffs: \"He looked quiet. Reserved. Something was up.\"Ferguson claims he recognised Harrington as a police officer who had strangled him during a stop and search incident two days earlier, though Harrington says he had had no contact with him then.Harrington's lawyers also point out that he is currently not charged with anything. \"PC Harrington has been advised that he is not to be the subject of any criminal proceedings in relation to allegations made concerning events in the custody area on the 11 August 2011,\" they said in a statement.MacFarlane's lawyers said: \"PC MacFarlane was advised by IPCC investigators on the 20 December 2011 that he was not regarded as a suspect in relation to allegations made by the 15-year-old youth, but in fact was being treated as a witness. He has, therefore, never been interviewed under criminal caution in relation to any allegation made by this individual. We consider it inappropriate at the present time to comment further in relation to the complaints made by Mr Demetrio.\"Days after the alleged assault, Ferguson lodged an complaint with the IPCC. The police watchdog initially supervised a Met police inquiry into Ferguson's complaint; CCTV was obtained, although it is believed to have captured only part of the alleged assault.At an early stage investigators consulted the CPS about Ferguson's case, and prosecutors advised there was no realistic prospect of convicting Harrington for common assault.Then in October, when investigators realised that Ferguson and Demetrio's cases were connected, the IPCC upgraded the inquiry to an independent investigation. That inquiry has been completed and was submitted to the Met on Tuesday.The report is understood to deal mainly with the actions of Harrington and to recommend that the officer, who is currently on restricted duties, is disciplined.However, there remains a possibility that Harrington will be prosecuted over the alleged assault on Ferguson.The Crown Prosecution Service announced an urgent review into the cases, and is reconsidering the advice it gave over the prospects for bringing a criminal charge against Harrington. The CPS said a senior lawyer was now reviewing the case, including evidence that was not available the first time around.", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Race issues", "London", "Police", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Scotland Yard's racism allegations unfolded"},{"date": "2012-06-29T16:16:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The world's first experiment to investigate the impact of a breached storage tank of carbon dioxide on the marine ecosystem has been completed off the coast of Scotland. More than four and a half tonnes of carbon dioxide were pumped into the seabed to simulate a gas leak, as part of a wider investigation into the safety of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology.The experiment, led by the Plymouth Marine Laboratory, began in May and is focused on assessing the safety of CCS . The technology captures carbon dioxide from power stations before it can be emitted into the atmosphere and then sequesters it under the ocean.There are 15 CCS projects in various stages of development worldwide, but this has been the first attempt to simulate the conditions of a breach in the carbon storage tanks.For the past 30 days, CO2 has been supplied from a \"pop-up\" lab and has travelled through a borehole under the sediment to the release site, 350 metres from the shore and 12 meters below the seabed of Ardmucknish Bay, near Oban.Initial results have followed the expectations of researchers, with localised impacts that have affected some creatures, while others have so far been unaffected.The experiment's co-ordinator, Dr Henrik Stahl from the Scottish Association for Marine Science, said: \"CO2 gas has been bubbling out of the sediments over the past few weeks and we have seen a clear but localised drop of the pH in the sediments and overlying water in the bubble zone, as expected.\"Some animals, such as sea-urchins living in the sediments, seem to react negatively to the increase in CO2 whereas others, such as crabs, seem to be attracted or unaffected by the bubbles; so there could be both winners and losers in a real-life situation.\"Although the gas injection has now been turned off, the site will continue to be monitored until at least September. The researchers believe that ongoing monitoring and analysis will prove essential in furthering our understanding of how leaked CO2 moves through sediment and how the marine ecosystems would respond in such an event.", "tags": ["Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Coal", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "World's first CCS leak experiment completed in sea off Scotland"},{"date": "2012-06-27T13:00:27Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In just over two years Scotland expects to be given the historic choice of whether or not to stay in the United Kingdom. That choice will shape Scotland's future, not just for the lifetime of a parliament but for generations. There will be no going back.I welcome a referendum, but I am no longer sure that Alex Salmond, the leader of the Scottish National party, still does. The SNP had a good year in 2011. This year its momentum has stalled. The SNP did not do as well as it anticipated in the Scottish government elections. Recent opinion polls show support for independence slipping. Alex Salmond is wobbling.No wonder. The SNP has had 80 years to prepare for this, yet the party still struggles to answer the most basic questions on Scotland's future: on how the currency would operate; or the regulation of Scotland's banks and insurance companies \u2013 a big share of our economy.The question is not whether Scotland can survive as a separate state. Of course it could. The real question is what is best for Scotland's future. There is a powerful case for being a strong partner in a United Kingdom, in a Scotland that offers a modern, positive view of its identity, hewn from a rich history, with wide horizons.In the UK, Scotland is part of a social union, underpinned by an economic and political union. We have a Scottish parliament with real decision-making powers. We also have a key role in a strong and secure United Kingdom.The referendum challenges us to answer some deep questions, about who we are and what we believe. Our links with the rest of the UK \u2013 through families and friendship, shared political, economic and cultural institutions \u2013 run deep. We don't need to abandon any of the identities we share \u2013 Scottish, British, European, citizens of the world.We have achieved so much as a partner in the UK. We created and then dismantled an empire together, fought fascism together, built the welfare state together. The BBC and the Bank of England were founded by Scots. The NHS was founded by a Welshman. The welfare state was founded by an Englishman. We would not have achieved half as much if we had not been a United Kingdom.We are being asked to make the choice for Scotland's future in the most uncertain of economic times. But it has to be about more than just economics.In a difficult world where more than 7 million children under the age of five die from preventable diseases; where the threat of climate change challenges all of us; where the gap between rich and poor continues to grow \u2013 these are the big challenges that we can influence as a strong partner in the UK. Independence is an inadequate response.Times are tough and uncertain, particularly in Europe where the difficulties of a currency union are exposed. We need more growth and more jobs. We do not need new areas of instability, uncertainty and division that separation will involve.The SNP, formed in the 1930s to win independence, seems not to have done the most basic homework. It is making it up as it goes along, gambling with jobs, businesses, savings. It has a duty to answer the fundamental questions on separation. What are the risks? The costs? The justification for upheaval and division? This is not an abstract debate. It is about jobs and the welfare state.Scotland trades more with England than with all other countries in the world combined. The UK is the world's oldest and most successful single market. Why turn our biggest market into our biggest competitor?In the UK we share opportunities and we also share risks. Four years ago when Scotland's banks were on the brink of collapse, the size and strength of the UK meant we could stop it happening. Sometimes it works the other way round. That is what partnership means.The UK has unique influence, in the EU, the Commonwealth and the G20 groups of the most powerful global economies. We are one of only five countries in the world with a permanent seat on the UN security council. As part of the UK, we have real clout. Why would we give away this deep influence?Scotland's people can best shape their own country and look outwards to help improve the wider world as a partner in a strong UK. We are better together.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Why Scotland should stay a partner in the United Kingdom | Alistair Darling"},{"date": "2012-06-28T23:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A community land fund that helped residents buy their Hebridean islands, local forests, an elderly care home and a post office facing closure has been relaunched in an effort to expand co-operative ownership across rural Scotland.The Scottish environment minister, Stewart Stevenson, has announced that \u00a36m will be put into a new Scottish land fund, after his government agreed to reopen a programme first set up by the first Labour first minister of Scotland, Donald Dewar, more than a decade ago.The original programme, using lottery money through the new opportunities fund, spent nearly \u00a314m in five years on 239 community buyouts ranging from a community forest in the Borders, a village shop on Uig in the Western Isles, to the purchase by its residents of the idyllic but then impoverished Hebridean island of Gigha off Argyll.The fund, which will spend about \u00a32m a year using money from the Scottish government, will be run by the Big Lottery and Highlands and Islands enterprise. Bids for grants and funding opens on Monday, six years after the first programme ended.The funding is likely to reinvigorate Scotland's land reform movement, where more than 500,000 acres of land is now in community ownership \u2013 an area larger than the estates and wildlife reserves owned by the National Trust for Scotland, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds and John Muir Trust.In recent years, a range of community buyouts using lottery funds, government grants and private fund-raising has enabled residents to buy land such as the Hebridean island of Eigg, the crofting lands of Assynt in Sutherland and on North Harris.Several other schemes have since helped fund community ownership projects, including the Big Lottery's \u00a350m growing community assets programme, which has supported 127 buyouts, including eight land purchases totalling over \u00a35m, and a community right-to-buy programme, which started in May 2005.Lukas Lehmann, the manager of the Island of Gigha Heritage trust that took control of the island in March 2002 with a \u00a33.5m gift from the first Scottish land fund (including a \u00a31m loan), said these programmes were extremely important for community ownership schemes.\"We wholeheartedly welcome this, and would say it's something which is long overdue,\" Lehmann said. \"Community ownership has a lot of potential, but it just doesn't happen on its own. It's not a free or a cheap option; it needs to be properly supported in order to work.\"Lehmann said that since Gigha was taken over, the trust was now being repopulated, becoming an economically vibrant place. Over the last 10 years, its population had risen from 98 to 160, while the school now had more pupils; young adults, who frequently leave as soon as they leave school, were now staying.Its housing stock had been overhauled. It was originally in a dire state, Lehmann said, with 75% graded \"below tolerable standard\" and 23% in a state of serious disrepair. A social landlord had also built 18 new homes.\"Like everybody else, the economic times aren't easy; certainly tourism has suffered, but there's a number of new businesses that have been developed \u2013 in the region of 12 or so, and we've also been able to improve the school roll.\"Peter Holbrook, of Social Enterprise UK, said the Scottish experience had influenced community empowerment campaigners and ministers across the rest of the UK, informing the localism act being pushed through by the Westminster government.\"Scotland has been a trailblazer and we need to see more of these powers brought in in England and Wales; we have the Localism Act, which creates an environment where we will see similar things being implemented but Scotland has given us the evidence, the momentum to drive these things forward. Wherever we've seen this happen, communities have been revitalised,\" he said.\u2022 This article was amended on Friday 29 June. The Scottish environment minister is Stewart Stevenson, not Stephenson as we had it originally.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Communities", "Society", "Rural affairs"], "title": "Scotland resurrects scheme to boost community ownership"},{"date": "2012-06-01T09:51:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A bill to open up the release of more information and strengthen the deterrent against the deliberate destruction or concealment of information has been introduced to Scottish parliament.Key elements of the freedom of information (amendment) (Scotland) bill include greater flexibility in reducing the lifetime of exemptions and paving the way for more information to be made public earlier.The Scottish government said the bill also makes its freedom of information (FoI) legislation stronger by strengthening its ability to prosecute where requested information had been deliberately altered, destroyed or concealed.It is already Scottish government policy to open most closed files with historical records at 15 years, rather than the traditional 30. The bill would allow the Scottish government to bring all Scottish public authorities in line with this policy.Brian Adam, the minister for parliamentary business and chief whip, said that Scotland's FoI legislation is recognised as playing a significant part in making the country a more \"open, transparent and accountable society\".This article is published by Guardian Professional. For weekly updates on news, debate and best practice on public sector IT, join the Guardian Government Computing network here.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "Transparency", "Devolved government"], "title": "Scotland to strengthen freedom of information legislation"},{"date": "2012-06-01T16:11:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " A fortnight ago, Creative Scotland blew any goodwill it had built up with the announcement of its latest funding review. Of the 74 arts organisations that had received flexible funding, grants of between \u00a355,000 and \u00a3300,000 covering two years, 49 will now have to compete on a project-by-project basis. Among them are award-winning theatre companies Vanishing Point and the Edinburgh-based site-specifists Grid Iron.Chief Executive Andrew Dixon has blogged in explanation : \"We have confirmed secure funding for 25 organisations, three of them as Foundations and 22 as Annual Clients with budgets set aside for three years. The other 49 organisations have secure budgets until April 2013 and will have access to bid into \u00a311m of lottery budgets each year.\" The alternative, he says, was losing 20 per cent of those companies outright. Despite a government cut of \u00a32.1m, the increased lottery money means that more funding will be available.But the question being asked is, \"At what cost?\" And it's being asked by many people. \"I've found noone \u2013 artist, producer, journalist, writer, musician \u2013 who is in favour of these changes,\" writes playwright David Greig in an open letter posted on his blog . Calling for a complete suspension of the plans, Greig suggests that a great deal of opposition is going unvoiced \"because [artists and producers] fear they will be left exposed in future funding decisions.\"At her personal blog, the Scotsman's theatre critic Joyce McMillan lays out what she calls the review's \"three deadly sins\". First, she stresses that lottery money can only be used for one-off projects, so Creative Scotland's hand is somewhat forced. However, the eradication of flexible funding has, she believes, moved those 49 organisations from \"a condition of modest security, into a condition of complete insecurity\".McMillan argues that the new plan demonstrates \"a kind of undead Thatcherism \u2026 and imposes a crude ethic of sado-competition \u2013 \"this will make you sharper and more competitive\" \u2013 on areas of society where co-operation, synergy and mutual respect clearly matter more.\" McMillan goes on to say that Creative Scotland has tinkered where it ought to have rethought and increased the creative control of funding bodies over artists themselves.Meanwhile, Simon Tait's latest diary-entry for Arts Industry speculates on the future of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, writing that should Jeremy Hunt resign in the wake of his Leveson Inquiry appearance. Tait suggest two alternatives. First, that the DCMS \"cannot be disbanded until after the Olympics,\" meaning \"a new secretary of state will have to be installed\" and granted a decent tenure. Alternatively, though, he also proposes the possibility that Hunt's resignation triggers its immediate abolishment, with responsibilities divvied up over the Jubilee weekend. Well, stranger things have happened.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Arts funding"], "title": "Noises off: Outcry over Creative Scotland review"},{"date": "2012-05-11T21:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It wasn't just the remote and beautiful Highlands setting, the days spent immersed in nature, yoga, arts and crafts, or even the wholesome home-cooked food that made this relaxation week the perfect antidote to urban living. Its unquantifiable but invaluable USP was that it was provided by a couple who, with a complete absence of corporate front, clearly love doing what they do.Any nerves I had about spending a week with a group of people I'd never met were calmed from the off by the twinkly-eyed Alex, one half of Wild Rose Escapes, whose effortless friendliness seemed to bode well.He met the guests at Inverness station and drove us through Drumnadrochit, on the north shore of Loch Ness, and up a track to the beautifully converted Polmaily Steading, our hideaway for the week. We were greeted with wide smiles by Rosie, who led us through the huge open living area where logs burned invitingly on an open fire and comfy russet-coloured sofas beckoned.In the large, country-style kitchen we sat around the table while Rosie served tea and freshly baked lemon cake. Rosie outlined the week ahead, emphasising that no one had to take part in any activity if they didn't want to. I briefly considered spending my visit doing nothing more than exploring the steading's cosy nooks with an armful of novels.After a dinner of quiche, salads and baked pears and plums, I headed for my pleasingly simple and very quiet room. I slept for nine hours that first night, a third more than my usual quota. At 8.30 the next morning, music lured me downstairs to where Joany, the yoga teacher, had laid out mats for some \"wee stretches and postures\". After an hour, knots in my neck and back were singing to me and I made a rash promise to myself to join a yoga class back home.Breakfast was a leisurely affair with more of Rosie's astonishing array of homemade goodies \u2013 granola, bread, jam, marmalade, chutney, hummus, and chunky flapjacks. It was a civilised 11.30am before the six guests climbed aboard the people carrier for the day's outing. I stared out of the window at mile after mile of Loch Ness while Rosie chatted knowledgeably about indigenous and imported trees. At Glen Affric, we meandered around the stunning landscape where lichen shrouded the trees like pale green snow amid a blaze of autumn colour. After an untaxing walk of around 45 minutes, we picnicked overlooking the River Affric, warmed by a giant flask of tea from Rosie's rucksack, and then returned home.Our days alternated between outings to a beauty spot \u2013 including the spectacular Plodda Falls, one of the highest in Scotland \u2013 and holing up in the steading for arts and crafts. I'd never tried batik, the Indonesian dyeing technique, and battled with inner doubts about not being able to draw before immersing myself in paints, crayons and melted wax, which we drizzled over plain canvas bags with pipe-like tools.The next day we dipped the bags in indigo dye and later ironed off the wax that had protected sections of the bag from the dye. I did feel a surge of delight at the end result, but couldn't help thinking, churlishly, that our efforts would probably fetch less than \u00a35 on a market stall. I also found myself calculating the effort-to-potential-profit ratio when we spent the best part of a day felting \u2013 making a template, picking bits of coloured wool to lay on the template, doing this again at right angles to the first layer of wool and a third time in the original direction, then soaking it all with water, placing bubble wrap on top, and soaping and rubbing this for an hour or two until my wrists were red raw.But even though I'm not about to quit my day job, I felt pretty proud of my rainbow creation and \u2013 this is really the point \u2013 there is something about the rhythm of creativity that utilises the unthinking part of our brain and calms the mind.But Rosie's passion for getting back to basics and making things from scratch really became evident the day we went foraging. After collecting sorrel, nettle and chickweed, we took the plants to the caravan where Rosie and Alex live with their baby, Thora. It has no running water or electricity and the compost toilet is a short walk away but Alex lit a fire \u2013 using a stainless steel tool, tree bark and an old wasps' nest, but no matches \u2013 and a meal of buckwheat stew with our hand-picked greens followed surprisingly quickly.\"She hates convenience,\" said Alex when I asked him what had drawn this couple from Wiltshire \u2013 they were at school together and both studied archaeology \u2013 to such a remote and harsh environment. But while Rosie is evidently as tough as boots herself, she took great care of us, making sure we were comfortable and inquiring what each of us wanted to do each day. She was never too busy to talk or take an interest in our lives.Each day Rosie conjured up some new culinary treat, culminating with a birthday cake for her friend and guest, Lucy, on the last day. Rosie had bought chocolate buttons to decorate it but at the last minute beckoned me outside to help her pick berries and leaves for the cake instead, and left me to arrange them. She also taught us to make bread and, while she cooked the evening meal, dictated recipes to me so that I could try them at home.She also produced mulled wine for us to sup around the fire one evening as we listened to a visiting storyteller. Other evenings included a facial massage class \u2013 using Joany's homemade, oil-infused creams \u2013 and a relaxation session. I can't tell you anything about that one because I fell fast sleep within minutes of it starting. On the final day, Rosie taught us a word/mime game and the conviviality of the week reached a peak.How on earth, I wondered, did Rosie manage to accomplish so much and remain so attentive, informative, sweet-tempered \u2013 and relaxed?\"This brings together everything I love,\" said Rosie, who worked in catering and tourism before setting up her own business with Alex. All Wild Rose Escapes are an immersion in Rosie's favourite things, delivered with the love and attention of an enthusiast. Lucy later revealed to me, entirely unsurprisingly, that Rosie had also once worked as a counsellor.There is an entire industry devoted to the art of relaxation, but Rosie and Alex delivered this retreat in a way that completely epitomised the worth of the concept. I returned to my normal life feeling slightly rueful that I am not, in fact, Rosie, but grateful for the sprinkling of her aura that I was taking home.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wild Rose Escapes (07765 173029, wildrose-escapes.co.uk). It runs relaxation weeks on 19-26 May, 8-15 September and 13-20 October. It also offers tailor-made weeks for groups of friends and families. The cost in both cases is from \u00a3695pp, including seven nights' full-board. EasyJet (easyjet.com) provided flights. It flies to Inverness from Bristol, Gatwick and Luton from \u00a344 return", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Health & wellbeing", "Life and style", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Scotland for the soul"},{"date": "2012-04-05T19:41:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The police van, filled with eight officers, pulled up beside the black Citro\u00ebn, on the corner of a residential street in east London, at around 6pm. It should have been a routine stop and search, one of hundreds taking place on 11 August as police tried to keep the streets quiet after three nights of intense rioting.Instead, the events that were about to unfold on the street, and later in nearby Forest Gate police station, would, eight months on, plunge Scotland Yard into a race controversy and ignite a public debate on how police treat young black men.At least two Newham borough officers in the van parked on Routh Street, in Beckton, are now suspected of involvement in serious assaults on two young black men, in separate incidents that same night.One, 21-year-old Mauro Demetrio, used his mobile phone to record an officer racially abusing him and said he was \"strangled\" in the police van. The other, Terelle Ferguson, 15 at the time, alleges he was strangled, as well as kicked, dragged across the floor and kneed in the back, and suffers a long-term injury.The vexed question of race allegedly played out in different but disturbing ways in two cases. Demetrio's recording captures one of the officers, PC Alex MacFarlane, subject him to a series of racial insults, at one point telling him: \"The problem with you is you will always be a nigger.\"Ferguson said that when he complained to MacFarlane about the way he was being treated, the officer said: \"You're just being racist, little boy. You're being racist.\"This week, the Crown Prosecution Service confirmed that two urgent reviews were underway into advice it gave over the prospects of prosecuting police officers allegedly implicated in both cases.Meanwhile, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Bernard Hogan-Howe, urged all 48,000 staff in the force to report inappropriate behaviour, warning: \"I will not stand for any racism or racists in the Met.\"Within a day, three other policemen in east London had been placed on restricted duties for allegedly making racist comments between January and March in a separate incident. On Thursday night a further five cases were referred to the police watchdog.The story starts just after the riots in the summer of 2011. Shortly after seeing the van containing eight officers, Demetrio said he pulled over to the side of the road. He describes seeing police rushing toward his car. \"They seemed twitchy because of the riots,\" he said. \"There were a lot of police cars in the area at that time and the officers seemed fired up.\"Demetrio was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of drugs \u2013 an accusation later dropped \u2013 and handcuffed and placed in the back of the van. He alleges that, while inside the vehicle and surrounded by other officers, he was assaulted, his head pushed against the van window. He says an officer put his knees on his chest and began strangling him. Shortly after Demetrio turned on the voice recorder on his mobile phone. He managed to make two recordings, lasting in all about 12 minutes. They give a few verbal exchanges between Demetrio and the officers over several minutes and are interspersed with long silences and the crackling sound of police radios.Demetrio occasionally raises his voice to complain about his treatment, and insults the officers. Asked to explain why he \"strangled\" Demetrio, an officer replies \"cos you're a cunt\", adding that he was \"kicking out\". The officer adds: \"Stopped you though, didn't it?\"Minutes later MacFarlane begins abusing Demetrio, using the offensive racist slur. Angered, Demetrio reads out MacFarlane's badge number (KF05) and complains that he had subjected him to racist comments: \"I'll always be a nigger \u2013 that's what you said, yeah?\"MacFarlane replies: \"You'll always have black skin colour. Don't hide behind your colour, yeah.\" He adds: \"Be proud. Be proud of who you are, yeah. Don't hide behind your black skin.\"The excerpts released by the Guardian last week have been listened to hundreds of thousands of times and prompted public outrage. Amid the public furore over the recording questions have been raised about why the other officers in the van did not report their colleague racially abusing Demetrio. The Guardian understands that when investigators questioned the seven other officers in the van about the incident they all claimed not to have heard MacFarlane make racist remarks.The Met says it cannot comment on the details: \"This matter is the subject of an independent IPCC investigation and it would be inappropriate to discuss any alleged details prior to their investigation being completed,\" said a spokesman on Thursday yesterday.Hogan-Howe, however, clearly believes the case raises important questions about accountability. \"We have a duty to challenge or report any behaviour by colleagues which is less than the high standard demanded by the service and Londoners themselves,\" he said in his address to staff. \"You cannot avoid that duty. Nor can I.\"The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), which investigated Demetrio's case, referred the matter to the CPS in January, after concluding that three officers may have co mmitted criminal offences. They were MacFarlane, identified as the officer making the racist remarks, and two others suspected of involvement in the alleged assault on Demetrio in the van: PC Joe Harrington and a constable known as Officer C.The CPS initially decided not to bring charges against any of the officers. Senior lawyers at the CPS are now reviewing the case and MacFarlane has been suspended.The paths of Demetrio and Ferguson crossed in the caged cell adjacent to the custody section of Forest Gate police station. The two had never met before. Demetrio had just arrived at the police station after the alleged assault in the van. He later handed in his mobile phone to custody desk officers and pleaded with them to investigate his treatment by Harrington and MacFarlane.Demetrio claimed he saw Harrington allegedly assault Ferguson, a 15-year-old from east London. Demetrio later told investigators he saw Harrington kick the teenager in the back of the leg and, once he was on the floor, knee him in the back.Ferguson had been transferred to Forest Gate from a police station in Stratford, east London, where he was arrested earlier in the day after being asked to attend the police station. The matter for which he was wanted has since been dropped.Ferguson, now 16, this week provided the Guardian with a detailed account of his complaint against the police. He says he saw Demetrio brought into the caged area in handcuffs: \"He looked quiet. Reserved. Something was up.\"Ferguson claims he recognised Harrington as a police officer who had strangled him during a stop and search incident two days earlier, though Harrington says he had had no contact with him then.Harrington's lawyers also point out that he is currently not charged with anything. \"PC Harrington has been advised that he is not to be the subject of any criminal proceedings in relation to allegations made concerning events in the custody area on the 11 August 2011,\" they said in a statement.MacFarlane's lawyers said: \"PC MacFarlane was advised by IPCC investigators on the 20 December 2011 that he was not regarded as a suspect in relation to allegations made by the 15-year-old youth, but in fact was being treated as a witness. He has, therefore, never been interviewed under criminal caution in relation to any allegation made by this individual. We consider it inappropriate at the present time to comment further in relation to the complaints made by Mr Demetrio.\"Days after the alleged assault, Ferguson lodged an complaint with the IPCC. The police watchdog initially supervised a Met police inquiry into Ferguson's complaint; CCTV was obtained, although it is believed to have captured only part of the alleged assault.At an early stage investigators consulted the CPS about Ferguson's case, and prosecutors advised there was no realistic prospect of convicting Harrington for common assault.Then in October, when investigators realised that Ferguson and Demetrio's cases were connected, the IPCC upgraded the inquiry to an independent investigation. That inquiry has been completed and was submitted to the Met on Tuesday.The report is understood to deal mainly with the actions of Harrington and to recommend that the officer, who is currently on restricted duties, is disciplined.However, there remains a possibility that Harrington will be prosecuted over the alleged assault on Ferguson.The Crown Prosecution Service announced an urgent review into the cases, and is reconsidering the advice it gave over the prospects for bringing a criminal charge against Harrington. The CPS said a senior lawyer was now reviewing the case, including evidence that was not available the first time around.", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Race issues", "London", "Police", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Scotland Yard's racism allegations unfolded"},{"date": "2012-06-29T16:16:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The world's first experiment to investigate the impact of a breached storage tank of carbon dioxide on the marine ecosystem has been completed off the coast of Scotland. More than four and a half tonnes of carbon dioxide were pumped into the seabed to simulate a gas leak, as part of a wider investigation into the safety of carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology.The experiment, led by the Plymouth Marine Laboratory, began in May and is focused on assessing the safety of CCS . The technology captures carbon dioxide from power stations before it can be emitted into the atmosphere and then sequesters it under the ocean.There are 15 CCS projects in various stages of development worldwide, but this has been the first attempt to simulate the conditions of a breach in the carbon storage tanks.For the past 30 days, CO2 has been supplied from a \"pop-up\" lab and has travelled through a borehole under the sediment to the release site, 350 metres from the shore and 12 meters below the seabed of Ardmucknish Bay, near Oban.Initial results have followed the expectations of researchers, with localised impacts that have affected some creatures, while others have so far been unaffected.The experiment's co-ordinator, Dr Henrik Stahl from the Scottish Association for Marine Science, said: \"CO2 gas has been bubbling out of the sediments over the past few weeks and we have seen a clear but localised drop of the pH in the sediments and overlying water in the bubble zone, as expected.\"Some animals, such as sea-urchins living in the sediments, seem to react negatively to the increase in CO2 whereas others, such as crabs, seem to be attracted or unaffected by the bubbles; so there could be both winners and losers in a real-life situation.\"Although the gas injection has now been turned off, the site will continue to be monitored until at least September. The researchers believe that ongoing monitoring and analysis will prove essential in furthering our understanding of how leaked CO2 moves through sediment and how the marine ecosystems would respond in such an event.", "tags": ["Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Coal", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "World's first CCS leak experiment completed in sea off Scotland"},{"date": "2012-06-27T13:00:27Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "In just over two years Scotland expects to be given the historic choice of whether or not to stay in the United Kingdom. That choice will shape Scotland's future, not just for the lifetime of a parliament but for generations. There will be no going back.I welcome a referendum, but I am no longer sure that Alex Salmond, the leader of the Scottish National party, still does. The SNP had a good year in 2011. This year its momentum has stalled. The SNP did not do as well as it anticipated in the Scottish government elections. Recent opinion polls show support for independence slipping. Alex Salmond is wobbling.No wonder. The SNP has had 80 years to prepare for this, yet the party still struggles to answer the most basic questions on Scotland's future: on how the currency would operate; or the regulation of Scotland's banks and insurance companies \u2013 a big share of our economy.The question is not whether Scotland can survive as a separate state. Of course it could. The real question is what is best for Scotland's future. There is a powerful case for being a strong partner in a United Kingdom, in a Scotland that offers a modern, positive view of its identity, hewn from a rich history, with wide horizons.In the UK, Scotland is part of a social union, underpinned by an economic and political union. We have a Scottish parliament with real decision-making powers. We also have a key role in a strong and secure United Kingdom.The referendum challenges us to answer some deep questions, about who we are and what we believe. Our links with the rest of the UK \u2013 through families and friendship, shared political, economic and cultural institutions \u2013 run deep. We don't need to abandon any of the identities we share \u2013 Scottish, British, European, citizens of the world.We have achieved so much as a partner in the UK. We created and then dismantled an empire together, fought fascism together, built the welfare state together. The BBC and the Bank of England were founded by Scots. The NHS was founded by a Welshman. The welfare state was founded by an Englishman. We would not have achieved half as much if we had not been a United Kingdom.We are being asked to make the choice for Scotland's future in the most uncertain of economic times. But it has to be about more than just economics.In a difficult world where more than 7 million children under the age of five die from preventable diseases; where the threat of climate change challenges all of us; where the gap between rich and poor continues to grow \u2013 these are the big challenges that we can influence as a strong partner in the UK. Independence is an inadequate response.Times are tough and uncertain, particularly in Europe where the difficulties of a currency union are exposed. We need more growth and more jobs. We do not need new areas of instability, uncertainty and division that separation will involve.The SNP, formed in the 1930s to win independence, seems not to have done the most basic homework. It is making it up as it goes along, gambling with jobs, businesses, savings. It has a duty to answer the fundamental questions on separation. What are the risks? The costs? The justification for upheaval and division? This is not an abstract debate. It is about jobs and the welfare state.Scotland trades more with England than with all other countries in the world combined. The UK is the world's oldest and most successful single market. Why turn our biggest market into our biggest competitor?In the UK we share opportunities and we also share risks. Four years ago when Scotland's banks were on the brink of collapse, the size and strength of the UK meant we could stop it happening. Sometimes it works the other way round. That is what partnership means.The UK has unique influence, in the EU, the Commonwealth and the G20 groups of the most powerful global economies. We are one of only five countries in the world with a permanent seat on the UN security council. As part of the UK, we have real clout. Why would we give away this deep influence?Scotland's people can best shape their own country and look outwards to help improve the wider world as a partner in a strong UK. We are better together.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Why Scotland should stay a partner in the United Kingdom | Alistair Darling"},{"date": "2012-06-25T08:49:27Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A Tory councillor who runs a small outfit fighting against Scottish independence seems to have found it hard to make the time to field questions about his organisation, Unity Scotland.Councillor Callum Campbell set up Unity Scotland, its slogan \"For a better future. For a better Scotland\", last year. It would be:A vehicle through which ordinary Scottish people can voice their support for a dynamic Scotland which can maximise its role within the United Kingdom.The only organisation yet to emerge in the intense debate on Scotland's future which asks for invites you to be a \"Friend of Unity Scotland\", it makes a bold pitch to potential supporters, offering four tiers of paid membership, ranging from Platinum for a minimum fee of \u00a3100, through blue at \u00a350, white at \u00a325 and red at \u00a315. For \u00a3100 plus, Platinum friends get a free umbrella, two Unity Scotland car window stickers, a 10% discount on ticketed events, and a \"preferential invitation to Unity Scotland events.\" For \u00a315, Red members get two car window stickers and that preferential invitation.And in October, it claimed it was \"fast becoming recognised as the cross-party vehicle\" opposing independence. That claim appears to rest on its activity on Twitter: since October last year it has posted 347 tweets, and now follows 1,969 people, harvesting 1764 followers in return. Yet information about its promised range of \"sponsored seminars and debates to social events and fund raising dinners throughout Scotland\" has proven hard to come by. Since then, several pro-UK campaigns have been launched. One a modest operation run by another Tory councillor, David Meikle in Glasgow, called One Dynamic Nation which publishes regular newsletters; the latest is the biggest of all: the Better Together organisation officially endorsed by the big three UK parties, Labour, the Tories and the Liberal Democrats, and being launched on Monday.Run using serviced offices in Edinburgh's New Town as its business address, Unity Scotland has only one registered director: Callum Campbell, the Tory councillor for Dunblane and Bridge of Allan. He is better known for taking an active role fighting the Beauly to Denny overhead cable in Stirlingshire.There are no other office bearers, trustees, staff members or advisers listed on its website. Nor does there appear to be any evidence of research reports, social events, publications by Unity Scotland either available on its site or in the pipeline. There is no mention of Unity Scotland at all on Campbell's personal website, which features a lengthy biography and regular blogs.We made brief contact with Cllr Campbell late last Wednesday afternoon, after chasing up an unanswered email to Unity Scotland earlier that day. On a train to Stirling, he promised to call back that evening. No return call was received.Subsequent phone messages left via the serviced office in Edinburgh and the Tory group offices at Stirling council has gone unreplied to. Further emails on Thursday to both Unity Scotland addresses, his personal website email address and his council email, asking for more information about Unity Scotland's activities, on how many people had bought membership, its organisational structure, and links to other pro-union organisations, have not yet been answered. There are only two mentions of Unity Scotland on the widely-read Tory Hoose blog, Scotland's best known and most active Tory-supporting political website, both dating back to last winter. In the first blog, Tory Hoose reported: Our attention here at Tory Hoose has recently been drawn to increased Unionist mumblings in cyberspace. Over recent weeks a growing number of people have been following Unity Scotland, a movement which supports the belief that the future of Scotland and its people is best served as part of the United Kingdom.The blog continued to quote a Unity Scotland spokesperson: The campaign has picked up traction relatively quickly as word spreads of an organised movement which brings together all those people who want Scotland to stop short of full independence.In the next article in late November, Tory Hoose reported that Unity Scotland had amassed more than 1,000 followers on Twitter is little over five weeks. To \"celebrate reaching that first milestone\" it offered 1,000 free window stickers. A spokesman told Tory Hoose: Unity Scotland has gained traction quickly. We are fast becoming recognised as the cross-party vehicle for those who support Scotland's current status within the United Kingdom. We have attracted the attention of a variety of people ranging from grass-roots voters across the political spectrum, to MSPs, MEPs and the media.Reports of any overt contact with MSPs or MEPs are absent from the Unity Scotland website, registered from Campbell's home address in Bridge of Allan on 17 June 2011, some six weeks after Alex Salmond's landslide victory in that May's Holyrood elections.What is known is that One Dynamic Nation, which is run by his colleague Cllr Meikle in Glasgow and does have publicly named backers, has been meeting senior Tories, including the former Scottish leader David McLetchie, who is heavily involved in Better Together. Meikle is considering whether ODN might join Better Together.Asked what he knew about Unity Scotland, Meikle said: Not had any dealings with them. However we approached them but never heard anything. Callum is a Conservative councillor in Scotland. The group wasn't mentioned by David McLetchie during our discussion. Not sure if they have big supporters or have made any progress in terms of grassroots support.With the launch on Monday of Better Together, Campbell may believe the time is right for Unity Scotland to help build that dynamic grassroots movement needed to save the union. He may decide Unity Scotland has served its purpose, and leave the field.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Constitutional reform"], "title": "Unity Scotland: one Tory's small but shy anti-independence campaign"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-07-25T21:21:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The conservative hierarchy in the Scottish Catholic church still carries on like a force in the land, but in truth it is a force in a country that is fading away. With singular ill taste on Tuesday, the archbishop-elect of Glasgow, Philip Tartaglia, linked the untimely death of the popular MP and one-time priest, David Cairns, to his homosexuality. A few weeks before, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the archbishop of Edinburgh and St Andrews, pledged fresh funds for campaigns against gay marriage. The move followed the ignoble tradition of propaganda against an equal age of consent, civil partnerships and same-sex adoption. But the church was on the wrong side of history in these cases, and \u2013 after Wednesday's bold words from deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 it is set to be on the losing side again.Ms Sturgeon spoke on the close of a consultation which confirmed that the Catholic and, indeed, many other churches retain their power to chivvy their faithful into picking up a pen: two-thirds of a record-breaking 77,000 respondees registered resistance to the change. This power of the postbag has awed parliamentarians in Holyrood and Westminster, sometimes cowing ministers into backing down, as when Labour dropped plans to force faiths schools to offer some places to irreligious pupils. Ms Sturgeon, however, shrewdly refuses to measure public opinion through letters alone, pointing instead to representative surveys which show a rough two-to-one margin in favour of same sex marriage, which is broadly mirrored across the generality of Catholics who have better things to do than respond to consultations.She is thus pressing ahead with legislation more radical than that being considered in London. Whereas Holyrood plans to enable both civil and religious ceremonies, with the necessary opt-outs for churches which could not bless gay marriage in good conscience, the coalition will only allow civil gay weddings. This is bizarre, seeing as the same coalition recently moved to allow civil partnerships in synagogues, meeting houses and chapels that are keen to host them. The bar on religious weddings was meant to reassure the faithful, but the Church of England has twisted the weird and novel distinction between religious and secular marriages into an excuse to oppose the whole reform, while it is left to Labour's Yvette Cooper to speak for liberal Jews and Quakers who resent the continuing bar on them offering ceremonial equality.The Scottish National party has a far from spotless record on gay rights. It backed the right of Catholic adoption agencies to snub gay couples, and took funds from the evangelical businessman, Brian Souter, who made such a noise about clause 2A (Scotland's section 28). This time, however, Scotland is calling the cardinal's bluff. London could learn from that.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Gay marriage: Scotland the brave"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-07-25T21:21:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The conservative hierarchy in the Scottish Catholic church still carries on like a force in the land, but in truth it is a force in a country that is fading away. With singular ill taste on Tuesday, the archbishop-elect of Glasgow, Philip Tartaglia, linked the untimely death of the popular MP and one-time priest, David Cairns, to his homosexuality. A few weeks before, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the archbishop of Edinburgh and St Andrews, pledged fresh funds for campaigns against gay marriage. The move followed the ignoble tradition of propaganda against an equal age of consent, civil partnerships and same-sex adoption. But the church was on the wrong side of history in these cases, and \u2013 after Wednesday's bold words from deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 it is set to be on the losing side again.Ms Sturgeon spoke on the close of a consultation which confirmed that the Catholic and, indeed, many other churches retain their power to chivvy their faithful into picking up a pen: two-thirds of a record-breaking 77,000 respondees registered resistance to the change. This power of the postbag has awed parliamentarians in Holyrood and Westminster, sometimes cowing ministers into backing down, as when Labour dropped plans to force faiths schools to offer some places to irreligious pupils. Ms Sturgeon, however, shrewdly refuses to measure public opinion through letters alone, pointing instead to representative surveys which show a rough two-to-one margin in favour of same sex marriage, which is broadly mirrored across the generality of Catholics who have better things to do than respond to consultations.She is thus pressing ahead with legislation more radical than that being considered in London. Whereas Holyrood plans to enable both civil and religious ceremonies, with the necessary opt-outs for churches which could not bless gay marriage in good conscience, the coalition will only allow civil gay weddings. This is bizarre, seeing as the same coalition recently moved to allow civil partnerships in synagogues, meeting houses and chapels that are keen to host them. The bar on religious weddings was meant to reassure the faithful, but the Church of England has twisted the weird and novel distinction between religious and secular marriages into an excuse to oppose the whole reform, while it is left to Labour's Yvette Cooper to speak for liberal Jews and Quakers who resent the continuing bar on them offering ceremonial equality.The Scottish National party has a far from spotless record on gay rights. It backed the right of Catholic adoption agencies to snub gay couples, and took funds from the evangelical businessman, Brian Souter, who made such a noise about clause 2A (Scotland's section 28). This time, however, Scotland is calling the cardinal's bluff. London could learn from that.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Gay marriage: Scotland the brave"},{"date": "2012-08-31T21:45:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Coillabus is an unusual new turf-roofed eco-lodge on the Oa peninsula in the south-east of Islay. Caithness flagstone and oak floors, local tweed furnishing, a sauna and a cedar hot-tub combine in a cosy retreat that sleeps four, with good access to cliff walks, trout fishing (a licence at the nearby angling club is included), golf or tasting the island's famous whisky.\u2022 07824 567435, coillabus.com. From \u00a3250 a night for a couple, or \u00a3300 for three or four (three-night minimum, fifth night free); from \u00a31,400/\u00a31,600 for a week. Ferries (calmac.co.uk) run four times a day until 20 October from Kennacraig to Islay, or Flybe (flybe.com) flies twice daily from Glasgow International to IslayWelsh cottage specialist Sheepskin Life has branched out to Scotland. The Ferry House on Loch Creran, near Oban, has simple interiors, industrial- style lighting, underfloor heating, views of the shore and 66 acres of private fields and forests to explore.\u2022 01865 764087, sheepskinlife.com, from \u00a3600 for three nights, sleeps fourResembling a princess's castle with its white turrets, but with sleek glamorous interiors, The Cairn is a 10-bedroom boutique hotel opened in Auchterarder, Perthshire, in April. It's part of Aurora Hotels, a small chain of luxury hotels across central Scotland, which is also opening the Colessio Hotel in Stirling later this year.\u2022 01764 662634, cairnlodge.co.uk, doubles from \u00a3165 B&B A 19th-century hunting lodge built for the Duke of Argyll is now the Putechan Hotel, in Bellochantuy on the western edge of Kintyre, with views of the isles of Islay, Jura and Gigha, a private pebble beach, champagne picnics and a restaurant serving seafood including Loch Fyne oysters, and local whiskies. The rooms are a bit plain and dark, but it's a great location. \u2022 01583 421323, theputechan.co.uk, doubles from \u00a360It's a bit of a way off now, but Malmaison is opening a hotel in Dundee next summer, on the site of the vacant Tay hotel, built in 1889. It will have 91 rooms and suites, a brasserie, whisky snug and wine- tasting room. The hotel will be part of a huge \u00a31bn redevelopment called the Dundee Central Waterfront, which will include improved transport, a new civic space, railway station, a new gridiron street layout, and a new V&A museum (to open in 2015). \u2022 dundeewaterfront.com Birdwatchers can spend a day with one of the biggest collections of owls in the world, from tiny scops owls to giant Siberian eagle owls at the new Scottish Owl Centre, which has moved to Polkemmet country park, near Whitburn in West Lothian, a lovely spot for a walk and a picnic.\u2022 0150-122 8184, scottishowlcentre.com, adult \u00a37.50, child \u00a35.50, family \u00a324 The Stevenson Way is a new wilderness walking route inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 book Kidnapped, in which young lad David Balfour is kidnapped by his wicked uncle and put on a boat bound for America, only to be shipwrecked on the island of Mull on the way \u2013 a tale based on a true story. The new route involves a 230-mile hike from the island of Erraid on the west coast of Mull to Edinburgh. The route is not waymarked, so trekkers need to be confident with using a map and compass.\u2022 stevensonway.org.ukFletcher's cottage spa is a rustic yet luxurious spa in the grounds of Archerfield House, a 17th-century manor house in Dirleton, East Lothian. Innovative features include a Himalayan salt room and private wooden bath huts serviced by a personal spa butler.\u2022 01620 897050, archerfieldhouse.com/spa. From \u00a3385 for an overnight spa break for two, including B&B in a luxury pavilion room and two spa treatmentsIn Edinburg, the Michelin-starred Galvin brothers have opened their first restaurant in Scotland, The Pompadour by Galvin, at the Caledonian on Princes Street, which will relaunch as a Waldorf Astoria hotel on 17 September after a \u00a324m restoration. A further, less formal, restaurant, the Galvin Brasserie de Luxe, with a circular dining bar, will open after the relaunch. Both will rely on great Scottish ingredients.\u2022 0131-222 8888, waldorfastoria3.hilton.comCanoeists and kayakers could consider paddling the Great Glen Canoe Trail, a new 60-mile route from Fort William to Inverness along canals, rivers and lochs. The trip will take at least five days but there are plenty of campsites en route.\u2022 greatglencanoetrail.infoCameron House, a swanky hotel on the shore of Loch Lomond, has an innovative take on fitness breaks. Earlier this summer it launched a military-style Boot Camp, with group sessions of outdoor circuit training and orienteering around the Trossachs and the loch. There's a spa to luxuriate in afterwards, and healthy meals such as poached eggs, baked salmon and wild rice. \u2022 0871 222 4681, devere-hotels.co.uk. Camp \u00a3149pp a day (open to non-guests), including breakfast and lunch; rooms from \u00a3169 B&B The UK's most northerly arts hub, the Mareel creative centre, opened last week in the Shetland Isles, and will feature a programme of live music and film, plus facilities for local creative types. The striking new building is on the quayside in Lerwick, next to the Shetland Museum.\u2022 shetlandarts.orgMore news and ideas at visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel", "Hotels", "Day trips"], "title": "New holidays and hotels in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-07-25T21:21:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The conservative hierarchy in the Scottish Catholic church still carries on like a force in the land, but in truth it is a force in a country that is fading away. With singular ill taste on Tuesday, the archbishop-elect of Glasgow, Philip Tartaglia, linked the untimely death of the popular MP and one-time priest, David Cairns, to his homosexuality. A few weeks before, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the archbishop of Edinburgh and St Andrews, pledged fresh funds for campaigns against gay marriage. The move followed the ignoble tradition of propaganda against an equal age of consent, civil partnerships and same-sex adoption. But the church was on the wrong side of history in these cases, and \u2013 after Wednesday's bold words from deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 it is set to be on the losing side again.Ms Sturgeon spoke on the close of a consultation which confirmed that the Catholic and, indeed, many other churches retain their power to chivvy their faithful into picking up a pen: two-thirds of a record-breaking 77,000 respondees registered resistance to the change. This power of the postbag has awed parliamentarians in Holyrood and Westminster, sometimes cowing ministers into backing down, as when Labour dropped plans to force faiths schools to offer some places to irreligious pupils. Ms Sturgeon, however, shrewdly refuses to measure public opinion through letters alone, pointing instead to representative surveys which show a rough two-to-one margin in favour of same sex marriage, which is broadly mirrored across the generality of Catholics who have better things to do than respond to consultations.She is thus pressing ahead with legislation more radical than that being considered in London. Whereas Holyrood plans to enable both civil and religious ceremonies, with the necessary opt-outs for churches which could not bless gay marriage in good conscience, the coalition will only allow civil gay weddings. This is bizarre, seeing as the same coalition recently moved to allow civil partnerships in synagogues, meeting houses and chapels that are keen to host them. The bar on religious weddings was meant to reassure the faithful, but the Church of England has twisted the weird and novel distinction between religious and secular marriages into an excuse to oppose the whole reform, while it is left to Labour's Yvette Cooper to speak for liberal Jews and Quakers who resent the continuing bar on them offering ceremonial equality.The Scottish National party has a far from spotless record on gay rights. It backed the right of Catholic adoption agencies to snub gay couples, and took funds from the evangelical businessman, Brian Souter, who made such a noise about clause 2A (Scotland's section 28). This time, however, Scotland is calling the cardinal's bluff. London could learn from that.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Gay marriage: Scotland the brave"},{"date": "2012-08-31T21:45:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Coillabus is an unusual new turf-roofed eco-lodge on the Oa peninsula in the south-east of Islay. Caithness flagstone and oak floors, local tweed furnishing, a sauna and a cedar hot-tub combine in a cosy retreat that sleeps four, with good access to cliff walks, trout fishing (a licence at the nearby angling club is included), golf or tasting the island's famous whisky.\u2022 07824 567435, coillabus.com. From \u00a3250 a night for a couple, or \u00a3300 for three or four (three-night minimum, fifth night free); from \u00a31,400/\u00a31,600 for a week. Ferries (calmac.co.uk) run four times a day until 20 October from Kennacraig to Islay, or Flybe (flybe.com) flies twice daily from Glasgow International to IslayWelsh cottage specialist Sheepskin Life has branched out to Scotland. The Ferry House on Loch Creran, near Oban, has simple interiors, industrial- style lighting, underfloor heating, views of the shore and 66 acres of private fields and forests to explore.\u2022 01865 764087, sheepskinlife.com, from \u00a3600 for three nights, sleeps fourResembling a princess's castle with its white turrets, but with sleek glamorous interiors, The Cairn is a 10-bedroom boutique hotel opened in Auchterarder, Perthshire, in April. It's part of Aurora Hotels, a small chain of luxury hotels across central Scotland, which is also opening the Colessio Hotel in Stirling later this year.\u2022 01764 662634, cairnlodge.co.uk, doubles from \u00a3165 B&B A 19th-century hunting lodge built for the Duke of Argyll is now the Putechan Hotel, in Bellochantuy on the western edge of Kintyre, with views of the isles of Islay, Jura and Gigha, a private pebble beach, champagne picnics and a restaurant serving seafood including Loch Fyne oysters, and local whiskies. The rooms are a bit plain and dark, but it's a great location. \u2022 01583 421323, theputechan.co.uk, doubles from \u00a360It's a bit of a way off now, but Malmaison is opening a hotel in Dundee next summer, on the site of the vacant Tay hotel, built in 1889. It will have 91 rooms and suites, a brasserie, whisky snug and wine- tasting room. The hotel will be part of a huge \u00a31bn redevelopment called the Dundee Central Waterfront, which will include improved transport, a new civic space, railway station, a new gridiron street layout, and a new V&A museum (to open in 2015). \u2022 dundeewaterfront.com Birdwatchers can spend a day with one of the biggest collections of owls in the world, from tiny scops owls to giant Siberian eagle owls at the new Scottish Owl Centre, which has moved to Polkemmet country park, near Whitburn in West Lothian, a lovely spot for a walk and a picnic.\u2022 0150-122 8184, scottishowlcentre.com, adult \u00a37.50, child \u00a35.50, family \u00a324 The Stevenson Way is a new wilderness walking route inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 book Kidnapped, in which young lad David Balfour is kidnapped by his wicked uncle and put on a boat bound for America, only to be shipwrecked on the island of Mull on the way \u2013 a tale based on a true story. The new route involves a 230-mile hike from the island of Erraid on the west coast of Mull to Edinburgh. The route is not waymarked, so trekkers need to be confident with using a map and compass.\u2022 stevensonway.org.ukFletcher's cottage spa is a rustic yet luxurious spa in the grounds of Archerfield House, a 17th-century manor house in Dirleton, East Lothian. Innovative features include a Himalayan salt room and private wooden bath huts serviced by a personal spa butler.\u2022 01620 897050, archerfieldhouse.com/spa. From \u00a3385 for an overnight spa break for two, including B&B in a luxury pavilion room and two spa treatmentsIn Edinburg, the Michelin-starred Galvin brothers have opened their first restaurant in Scotland, The Pompadour by Galvin, at the Caledonian on Princes Street, which will relaunch as a Waldorf Astoria hotel on 17 September after a \u00a324m restoration. A further, less formal, restaurant, the Galvin Brasserie de Luxe, with a circular dining bar, will open after the relaunch. Both will rely on great Scottish ingredients.\u2022 0131-222 8888, waldorfastoria3.hilton.comCanoeists and kayakers could consider paddling the Great Glen Canoe Trail, a new 60-mile route from Fort William to Inverness along canals, rivers and lochs. The trip will take at least five days but there are plenty of campsites en route.\u2022 greatglencanoetrail.infoCameron House, a swanky hotel on the shore of Loch Lomond, has an innovative take on fitness breaks. Earlier this summer it launched a military-style Boot Camp, with group sessions of outdoor circuit training and orienteering around the Trossachs and the loch. There's a spa to luxuriate in afterwards, and healthy meals such as poached eggs, baked salmon and wild rice. \u2022 0871 222 4681, devere-hotels.co.uk. Camp \u00a3149pp a day (open to non-guests), including breakfast and lunch; rooms from \u00a3169 B&B The UK's most northerly arts hub, the Mareel creative centre, opened last week in the Shetland Isles, and will feature a programme of live music and film, plus facilities for local creative types. The striking new building is on the quayside in Lerwick, next to the Shetland Museum.\u2022 shetlandarts.orgMore news and ideas at visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel", "Hotels", "Day trips"], "title": "New holidays and hotels in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-08-01T23:43:31Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A split appears to be emerging within the coalition over the future of Royal Bank of Scotland.It is believed that Liberal Democrat Vince Cable is arguing that it should be nationalised to bolster lending to small businesses, but the business secretary, who has made no secret of his belief that 100% control of RBS compared with 83% now would boost lending, appears to be failing to win the support of Cabinet colleagues, including the chancellor, George Osborne.The bank, which is due to report a first-half loss on Friday, is arguing that it is lending as much as it can, but Cable is thought to feel that Osborne could do more to foster lending given the lack of growth in the economy.The Treasury is adamant that full-scale nationalisation, which would cost another \u00a35bn, is not on the cards. \"We are committed to repairing and returning RBS to full health so that it is able to support the UK economy in the future, and the current strategy is working to achieve that. The government's policy has always been to return RBS to the private sector, but only when it delivers value for money for the taxpayer,\" the Treasury said.In March, Cable wrote to David Cameron to urge him to use RBS as a vehicle for lending to small businesses. Cable gave a speech shortly afterwards acknowledging the problems with EU state aid.Last week, the Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott wrote in the Guardian: \"If RBS, the worst non-lender by far, won't do its basic job, we must nationalise it\".But the RBS chief executive Stephen Hester indicated in an interview with the Guardian last week that his aim remained to loosen the state's ties on the bank. He expects the bank to exit the asset protection scheme -set up to insure \u00a3300bn of the bank's most toxic assets (loans) \u2013 later this year.The business secretary is thought to feel emboldened by the botched lending schemes already introduced by Osborne who presided over an economy which contracted by 0.7% in the last quarter. A national loan guarantee scheme has already been replaced by funding for lending which was launched this week.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland future divides coalition"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-07-25T21:21:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The conservative hierarchy in the Scottish Catholic church still carries on like a force in the land, but in truth it is a force in a country that is fading away. With singular ill taste on Tuesday, the archbishop-elect of Glasgow, Philip Tartaglia, linked the untimely death of the popular MP and one-time priest, David Cairns, to his homosexuality. A few weeks before, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the archbishop of Edinburgh and St Andrews, pledged fresh funds for campaigns against gay marriage. The move followed the ignoble tradition of propaganda against an equal age of consent, civil partnerships and same-sex adoption. But the church was on the wrong side of history in these cases, and \u2013 after Wednesday's bold words from deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 it is set to be on the losing side again.Ms Sturgeon spoke on the close of a consultation which confirmed that the Catholic and, indeed, many other churches retain their power to chivvy their faithful into picking up a pen: two-thirds of a record-breaking 77,000 respondees registered resistance to the change. This power of the postbag has awed parliamentarians in Holyrood and Westminster, sometimes cowing ministers into backing down, as when Labour dropped plans to force faiths schools to offer some places to irreligious pupils. Ms Sturgeon, however, shrewdly refuses to measure public opinion through letters alone, pointing instead to representative surveys which show a rough two-to-one margin in favour of same sex marriage, which is broadly mirrored across the generality of Catholics who have better things to do than respond to consultations.She is thus pressing ahead with legislation more radical than that being considered in London. Whereas Holyrood plans to enable both civil and religious ceremonies, with the necessary opt-outs for churches which could not bless gay marriage in good conscience, the coalition will only allow civil gay weddings. This is bizarre, seeing as the same coalition recently moved to allow civil partnerships in synagogues, meeting houses and chapels that are keen to host them. The bar on religious weddings was meant to reassure the faithful, but the Church of England has twisted the weird and novel distinction between religious and secular marriages into an excuse to oppose the whole reform, while it is left to Labour's Yvette Cooper to speak for liberal Jews and Quakers who resent the continuing bar on them offering ceremonial equality.The Scottish National party has a far from spotless record on gay rights. It backed the right of Catholic adoption agencies to snub gay couples, and took funds from the evangelical businessman, Brian Souter, who made such a noise about clause 2A (Scotland's section 28). This time, however, Scotland is calling the cardinal's bluff. London could learn from that.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Gay marriage: Scotland the brave"},{"date": "2012-08-31T21:45:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Coillabus is an unusual new turf-roofed eco-lodge on the Oa peninsula in the south-east of Islay. Caithness flagstone and oak floors, local tweed furnishing, a sauna and a cedar hot-tub combine in a cosy retreat that sleeps four, with good access to cliff walks, trout fishing (a licence at the nearby angling club is included), golf or tasting the island's famous whisky.\u2022 07824 567435, coillabus.com. From \u00a3250 a night for a couple, or \u00a3300 for three or four (three-night minimum, fifth night free); from \u00a31,400/\u00a31,600 for a week. Ferries (calmac.co.uk) run four times a day until 20 October from Kennacraig to Islay, or Flybe (flybe.com) flies twice daily from Glasgow International to IslayWelsh cottage specialist Sheepskin Life has branched out to Scotland. The Ferry House on Loch Creran, near Oban, has simple interiors, industrial- style lighting, underfloor heating, views of the shore and 66 acres of private fields and forests to explore.\u2022 01865 764087, sheepskinlife.com, from \u00a3600 for three nights, sleeps fourResembling a princess's castle with its white turrets, but with sleek glamorous interiors, The Cairn is a 10-bedroom boutique hotel opened in Auchterarder, Perthshire, in April. It's part of Aurora Hotels, a small chain of luxury hotels across central Scotland, which is also opening the Colessio Hotel in Stirling later this year.\u2022 01764 662634, cairnlodge.co.uk, doubles from \u00a3165 B&B A 19th-century hunting lodge built for the Duke of Argyll is now the Putechan Hotel, in Bellochantuy on the western edge of Kintyre, with views of the isles of Islay, Jura and Gigha, a private pebble beach, champagne picnics and a restaurant serving seafood including Loch Fyne oysters, and local whiskies. The rooms are a bit plain and dark, but it's a great location. \u2022 01583 421323, theputechan.co.uk, doubles from \u00a360It's a bit of a way off now, but Malmaison is opening a hotel in Dundee next summer, on the site of the vacant Tay hotel, built in 1889. It will have 91 rooms and suites, a brasserie, whisky snug and wine- tasting room. The hotel will be part of a huge \u00a31bn redevelopment called the Dundee Central Waterfront, which will include improved transport, a new civic space, railway station, a new gridiron street layout, and a new V&A museum (to open in 2015). \u2022 dundeewaterfront.com Birdwatchers can spend a day with one of the biggest collections of owls in the world, from tiny scops owls to giant Siberian eagle owls at the new Scottish Owl Centre, which has moved to Polkemmet country park, near Whitburn in West Lothian, a lovely spot for a walk and a picnic.\u2022 0150-122 8184, scottishowlcentre.com, adult \u00a37.50, child \u00a35.50, family \u00a324 The Stevenson Way is a new wilderness walking route inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 book Kidnapped, in which young lad David Balfour is kidnapped by his wicked uncle and put on a boat bound for America, only to be shipwrecked on the island of Mull on the way \u2013 a tale based on a true story. The new route involves a 230-mile hike from the island of Erraid on the west coast of Mull to Edinburgh. The route is not waymarked, so trekkers need to be confident with using a map and compass.\u2022 stevensonway.org.ukFletcher's cottage spa is a rustic yet luxurious spa in the grounds of Archerfield House, a 17th-century manor house in Dirleton, East Lothian. Innovative features include a Himalayan salt room and private wooden bath huts serviced by a personal spa butler.\u2022 01620 897050, archerfieldhouse.com/spa. From \u00a3385 for an overnight spa break for two, including B&B in a luxury pavilion room and two spa treatmentsIn Edinburg, the Michelin-starred Galvin brothers have opened their first restaurant in Scotland, The Pompadour by Galvin, at the Caledonian on Princes Street, which will relaunch as a Waldorf Astoria hotel on 17 September after a \u00a324m restoration. A further, less formal, restaurant, the Galvin Brasserie de Luxe, with a circular dining bar, will open after the relaunch. Both will rely on great Scottish ingredients.\u2022 0131-222 8888, waldorfastoria3.hilton.comCanoeists and kayakers could consider paddling the Great Glen Canoe Trail, a new 60-mile route from Fort William to Inverness along canals, rivers and lochs. The trip will take at least five days but there are plenty of campsites en route.\u2022 greatglencanoetrail.infoCameron House, a swanky hotel on the shore of Loch Lomond, has an innovative take on fitness breaks. Earlier this summer it launched a military-style Boot Camp, with group sessions of outdoor circuit training and orienteering around the Trossachs and the loch. There's a spa to luxuriate in afterwards, and healthy meals such as poached eggs, baked salmon and wild rice. \u2022 0871 222 4681, devere-hotels.co.uk. Camp \u00a3149pp a day (open to non-guests), including breakfast and lunch; rooms from \u00a3169 B&B The UK's most northerly arts hub, the Mareel creative centre, opened last week in the Shetland Isles, and will feature a programme of live music and film, plus facilities for local creative types. The striking new building is on the quayside in Lerwick, next to the Shetland Museum.\u2022 shetlandarts.orgMore news and ideas at visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel", "Hotels", "Day trips"], "title": "New holidays and hotels in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-08-01T23:43:31Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A split appears to be emerging within the coalition over the future of Royal Bank of Scotland.It is believed that Liberal Democrat Vince Cable is arguing that it should be nationalised to bolster lending to small businesses, but the business secretary, who has made no secret of his belief that 100% control of RBS compared with 83% now would boost lending, appears to be failing to win the support of Cabinet colleagues, including the chancellor, George Osborne.The bank, which is due to report a first-half loss on Friday, is arguing that it is lending as much as it can, but Cable is thought to feel that Osborne could do more to foster lending given the lack of growth in the economy.The Treasury is adamant that full-scale nationalisation, which would cost another \u00a35bn, is not on the cards. \"We are committed to repairing and returning RBS to full health so that it is able to support the UK economy in the future, and the current strategy is working to achieve that. The government's policy has always been to return RBS to the private sector, but only when it delivers value for money for the taxpayer,\" the Treasury said.In March, Cable wrote to David Cameron to urge him to use RBS as a vehicle for lending to small businesses. Cable gave a speech shortly afterwards acknowledging the problems with EU state aid.Last week, the Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott wrote in the Guardian: \"If RBS, the worst non-lender by far, won't do its basic job, we must nationalise it\".But the RBS chief executive Stephen Hester indicated in an interview with the Guardian last week that his aim remained to loosen the state's ties on the bank. He expects the bank to exit the asset protection scheme -set up to insure \u00a3300bn of the bank's most toxic assets (loans) \u2013 later this year.The business secretary is thought to feel emboldened by the botched lending schemes already introduced by Osborne who presided over an economy which contracted by 0.7% in the last quarter. A national loan guarantee scheme has already been replaced by funding for lending which was launched this week.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland future divides coalition"},{"date": "2012-07-17T18:31:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has postponed a decision on whether to legislate to make it the first part of the UK to allow same-sex marriage.If legislation is introduced members of the Scottish parliament are expected to vote through the measure. This will put pressure on MPs in Westminster to support the prime minister in his attempts to do the same for England and Wales, despite strong opposition within his own party and from the Church of England.A Scottish government spokesperson said a decision was still expected later this month but the cabinet needed more time to \"get both the principle and the detail\" right.The cabinet has, however, rejected a referendum. \"Cabinet views this as an issue of conscience not constitution,\" said an official.The Equality Network, the lesbian gay and transexual charity that campaigns for equal marriage in Scotland, said it was \"hugely disappointing that yet again we are being told to wait for an answer that never seems to come\".", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "UK news", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Marriage", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Equality", "Society", "Law"], "title": "Scotland delays same-sex marriage legal decision"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-07-25T21:21:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The conservative hierarchy in the Scottish Catholic church still carries on like a force in the land, but in truth it is a force in a country that is fading away. With singular ill taste on Tuesday, the archbishop-elect of Glasgow, Philip Tartaglia, linked the untimely death of the popular MP and one-time priest, David Cairns, to his homosexuality. A few weeks before, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the archbishop of Edinburgh and St Andrews, pledged fresh funds for campaigns against gay marriage. The move followed the ignoble tradition of propaganda against an equal age of consent, civil partnerships and same-sex adoption. But the church was on the wrong side of history in these cases, and \u2013 after Wednesday's bold words from deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 it is set to be on the losing side again.Ms Sturgeon spoke on the close of a consultation which confirmed that the Catholic and, indeed, many other churches retain their power to chivvy their faithful into picking up a pen: two-thirds of a record-breaking 77,000 respondees registered resistance to the change. This power of the postbag has awed parliamentarians in Holyrood and Westminster, sometimes cowing ministers into backing down, as when Labour dropped plans to force faiths schools to offer some places to irreligious pupils. Ms Sturgeon, however, shrewdly refuses to measure public opinion through letters alone, pointing instead to representative surveys which show a rough two-to-one margin in favour of same sex marriage, which is broadly mirrored across the generality of Catholics who have better things to do than respond to consultations.She is thus pressing ahead with legislation more radical than that being considered in London. Whereas Holyrood plans to enable both civil and religious ceremonies, with the necessary opt-outs for churches which could not bless gay marriage in good conscience, the coalition will only allow civil gay weddings. This is bizarre, seeing as the same coalition recently moved to allow civil partnerships in synagogues, meeting houses and chapels that are keen to host them. The bar on religious weddings was meant to reassure the faithful, but the Church of England has twisted the weird and novel distinction between religious and secular marriages into an excuse to oppose the whole reform, while it is left to Labour's Yvette Cooper to speak for liberal Jews and Quakers who resent the continuing bar on them offering ceremonial equality.The Scottish National party has a far from spotless record on gay rights. It backed the right of Catholic adoption agencies to snub gay couples, and took funds from the evangelical businessman, Brian Souter, who made such a noise about clause 2A (Scotland's section 28). This time, however, Scotland is calling the cardinal's bluff. London could learn from that.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Gay marriage: Scotland the brave"},{"date": "2012-08-31T21:45:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Coillabus is an unusual new turf-roofed eco-lodge on the Oa peninsula in the south-east of Islay. Caithness flagstone and oak floors, local tweed furnishing, a sauna and a cedar hot-tub combine in a cosy retreat that sleeps four, with good access to cliff walks, trout fishing (a licence at the nearby angling club is included), golf or tasting the island's famous whisky.\u2022 07824 567435, coillabus.com. From \u00a3250 a night for a couple, or \u00a3300 for three or four (three-night minimum, fifth night free); from \u00a31,400/\u00a31,600 for a week. Ferries (calmac.co.uk) run four times a day until 20 October from Kennacraig to Islay, or Flybe (flybe.com) flies twice daily from Glasgow International to IslayWelsh cottage specialist Sheepskin Life has branched out to Scotland. The Ferry House on Loch Creran, near Oban, has simple interiors, industrial- style lighting, underfloor heating, views of the shore and 66 acres of private fields and forests to explore.\u2022 01865 764087, sheepskinlife.com, from \u00a3600 for three nights, sleeps fourResembling a princess's castle with its white turrets, but with sleek glamorous interiors, The Cairn is a 10-bedroom boutique hotel opened in Auchterarder, Perthshire, in April. It's part of Aurora Hotels, a small chain of luxury hotels across central Scotland, which is also opening the Colessio Hotel in Stirling later this year.\u2022 01764 662634, cairnlodge.co.uk, doubles from \u00a3165 B&B A 19th-century hunting lodge built for the Duke of Argyll is now the Putechan Hotel, in Bellochantuy on the western edge of Kintyre, with views of the isles of Islay, Jura and Gigha, a private pebble beach, champagne picnics and a restaurant serving seafood including Loch Fyne oysters, and local whiskies. The rooms are a bit plain and dark, but it's a great location. \u2022 01583 421323, theputechan.co.uk, doubles from \u00a360It's a bit of a way off now, but Malmaison is opening a hotel in Dundee next summer, on the site of the vacant Tay hotel, built in 1889. It will have 91 rooms and suites, a brasserie, whisky snug and wine- tasting room. The hotel will be part of a huge \u00a31bn redevelopment called the Dundee Central Waterfront, which will include improved transport, a new civic space, railway station, a new gridiron street layout, and a new V&A museum (to open in 2015). \u2022 dundeewaterfront.com Birdwatchers can spend a day with one of the biggest collections of owls in the world, from tiny scops owls to giant Siberian eagle owls at the new Scottish Owl Centre, which has moved to Polkemmet country park, near Whitburn in West Lothian, a lovely spot for a walk and a picnic.\u2022 0150-122 8184, scottishowlcentre.com, adult \u00a37.50, child \u00a35.50, family \u00a324 The Stevenson Way is a new wilderness walking route inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 book Kidnapped, in which young lad David Balfour is kidnapped by his wicked uncle and put on a boat bound for America, only to be shipwrecked on the island of Mull on the way \u2013 a tale based on a true story. The new route involves a 230-mile hike from the island of Erraid on the west coast of Mull to Edinburgh. The route is not waymarked, so trekkers need to be confident with using a map and compass.\u2022 stevensonway.org.ukFletcher's cottage spa is a rustic yet luxurious spa in the grounds of Archerfield House, a 17th-century manor house in Dirleton, East Lothian. Innovative features include a Himalayan salt room and private wooden bath huts serviced by a personal spa butler.\u2022 01620 897050, archerfieldhouse.com/spa. From \u00a3385 for an overnight spa break for two, including B&B in a luxury pavilion room and two spa treatmentsIn Edinburg, the Michelin-starred Galvin brothers have opened their first restaurant in Scotland, The Pompadour by Galvin, at the Caledonian on Princes Street, which will relaunch as a Waldorf Astoria hotel on 17 September after a \u00a324m restoration. A further, less formal, restaurant, the Galvin Brasserie de Luxe, with a circular dining bar, will open after the relaunch. Both will rely on great Scottish ingredients.\u2022 0131-222 8888, waldorfastoria3.hilton.comCanoeists and kayakers could consider paddling the Great Glen Canoe Trail, a new 60-mile route from Fort William to Inverness along canals, rivers and lochs. The trip will take at least five days but there are plenty of campsites en route.\u2022 greatglencanoetrail.infoCameron House, a swanky hotel on the shore of Loch Lomond, has an innovative take on fitness breaks. Earlier this summer it launched a military-style Boot Camp, with group sessions of outdoor circuit training and orienteering around the Trossachs and the loch. There's a spa to luxuriate in afterwards, and healthy meals such as poached eggs, baked salmon and wild rice. \u2022 0871 222 4681, devere-hotels.co.uk. Camp \u00a3149pp a day (open to non-guests), including breakfast and lunch; rooms from \u00a3169 B&B The UK's most northerly arts hub, the Mareel creative centre, opened last week in the Shetland Isles, and will feature a programme of live music and film, plus facilities for local creative types. The striking new building is on the quayside in Lerwick, next to the Shetland Museum.\u2022 shetlandarts.orgMore news and ideas at visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel", "Hotels", "Day trips"], "title": "New holidays and hotels in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-08-01T23:43:31Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A split appears to be emerging within the coalition over the future of Royal Bank of Scotland.It is believed that Liberal Democrat Vince Cable is arguing that it should be nationalised to bolster lending to small businesses, but the business secretary, who has made no secret of his belief that 100% control of RBS compared with 83% now would boost lending, appears to be failing to win the support of Cabinet colleagues, including the chancellor, George Osborne.The bank, which is due to report a first-half loss on Friday, is arguing that it is lending as much as it can, but Cable is thought to feel that Osborne could do more to foster lending given the lack of growth in the economy.The Treasury is adamant that full-scale nationalisation, which would cost another \u00a35bn, is not on the cards. \"We are committed to repairing and returning RBS to full health so that it is able to support the UK economy in the future, and the current strategy is working to achieve that. The government's policy has always been to return RBS to the private sector, but only when it delivers value for money for the taxpayer,\" the Treasury said.In March, Cable wrote to David Cameron to urge him to use RBS as a vehicle for lending to small businesses. Cable gave a speech shortly afterwards acknowledging the problems with EU state aid.Last week, the Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott wrote in the Guardian: \"If RBS, the worst non-lender by far, won't do its basic job, we must nationalise it\".But the RBS chief executive Stephen Hester indicated in an interview with the Guardian last week that his aim remained to loosen the state's ties on the bank. He expects the bank to exit the asset protection scheme -set up to insure \u00a3300bn of the bank's most toxic assets (loans) \u2013 later this year.The business secretary is thought to feel emboldened by the botched lending schemes already introduced by Osborne who presided over an economy which contracted by 0.7% in the last quarter. A national loan guarantee scheme has already been replaced by funding for lending which was launched this week.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland future divides coalition"},{"date": "2012-07-17T18:31:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has postponed a decision on whether to legislate to make it the first part of the UK to allow same-sex marriage.If legislation is introduced members of the Scottish parliament are expected to vote through the measure. This will put pressure on MPs in Westminster to support the prime minister in his attempts to do the same for England and Wales, despite strong opposition within his own party and from the Church of England.A Scottish government spokesperson said a decision was still expected later this month but the cabinet needed more time to \"get both the principle and the detail\" right.The cabinet has, however, rejected a referendum. \"Cabinet views this as an issue of conscience not constitution,\" said an official.The Equality Network, the lesbian gay and transexual charity that campaigns for equal marriage in Scotland, said it was \"hugely disappointing that yet again we are being told to wait for an answer that never seems to come\".", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "UK news", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Marriage", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Equality", "Society", "Law"], "title": "Scotland delays same-sex marriage legal decision"},{"date": "2012-07-03T23:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two people are missing and two others have been picked up by helicopter after two Tornado jets crashed off the north-east coast of Scotland, the Ministry of Defence said.The two were rescued from the Moray Firth and taken to hospital in Inverness. No further details were given about their conditionon Tuesday night.The search for the two missing airmen was called off at 10.45pm. The Ministry of Defence said it would continue looking for them this morning.The incident involved two GR4 Tornado aircraft, a type of combat jet that is in use in Afghanistan and was used extensively over Libya last year. The aircraft flew from RAF Lossiemouth, on the Moray coast, the UK's biggest fast-jet base and home to three operational squadrons of Tornado GR4s, including the Tornado GR4 Operational Conversion Unit, which trains aircrew.Each plane carries two crew. It is understood the jets were flying together and were involved in a practice bombing run shortly before the crash.Around 15 lifeboat volunteers joined the rescue operation in three boats after reports that the jets came down about 25 miles south of Wick, Highland. Aberdeen coastguard contacted the Royal National Lifeboat Institution at about 1.50pm.Boats were sent from Wick, Invergordon in Highland, and Buckie in Moray, towards the Beatrice oil field area, supported by a helicopter from Stornoway in the Western Isles. The crew from the Buckie boat reported that two people were taken from the sea by helicopter. As light faded over the crash site , the Buckie lifeboat brought some aircraft wreckage ashore.In a statement, Group Captain Ian Gale, station commander at RAF Lossiemouth, confirmed the loss of the two Tornado GR4s and said four aircrew were involved. \"The circumstances remain uncertain but clearly this is a very serious incident,\" he said.He said it was an \"evolving situation\" and he was not prepared \"to comment at this time\" on the condition of the two crew who had been recovered, or the circumstances surrounding the incident, except to say his thoughts were with the families and rescue operations were continuing.\"I am confident that the Tornado aircraft on this station are operated as safely as they possibly can be. However, today's incident is a stark reminder that the military operations and training we conduct are not without risk.\"It is not the first incident involving aircraft from RAF Lossiemouth. An official investigation found that RAF Tornado aircraft have been involved in crashes in Scotland in recent years.In January last year, two RAF crew were rescued after their Tornado GR4 from the base came down in the sea off the west coast of Scotland. The crew ejected before the plane hit the water near Gairloch, Wester Ross.The Tornado GR4 is a two-seat attack aircraft, capable of delivering a variety of weapons and reaching a maximum altitude of 15,000 metres (50,000ft).In July 2009, an RAF pilot and navigator were killed when their Tornado F3 jet crashed into a hillside in Argyll. Flight Lieutenant Kenneth Thompson, 27, and Flight Lieutenant Nigel Morton, 43, died in the crash near the village of Arrochar.\u2022 This article was amended on 4 July 2012 to correct details about the squadrons based at RAF Lossiemouth.", "tags": ["Royal Air Force", "Military", "UK news", "Scotland", "Plane crashes"], "title": "Two RAF Tornado jets crash in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-09-24T08:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "How do newspaper publishers increase profits in these straitened times? By axeing staff, cutting wages and ditching pension schemes, of course.That's the clear message revealed in a set of figures published by the Glasgow-based Herald about its owner, the notoriously secretive Newsquest, the British arm of US media giant Gannett.Its Scottish division, responsible for The Herald, Sunday Herald and the Glasgow Evening Times, has posted a 19.6% rise in pre-tax profits for the year up to 25 December 2011 to \u00a38.7m - despite a drop in revenue, which also saw turnover fall by 2.7% to \u00a356.9m.Staff numbers fell from 597 in 2010 to 537 in 2011. Salaries dropped from \u00a318.8m to \u00a317.1m. And pension costs tumbled from \u00a34.3m to \u00a31.4m as the company closed its defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual from 31 March 2011.Managing director Tim Blott pointed to a 12.5% rise in advertising as a positive sign while noting that \"print revenues continue to be under pressure during the current recession.\"And there could be problems ahead for the company's print plant at Cambuslang. Blott said it \"faces a very competitive contract printing market as well as declining print runs and paginations.\"Source: The Herald Hat tip: AllMedia Scotland", "tags": ["Media", "Newsquest", "Media business", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media downturn", "Gannett", "Scotland"], "title": "Profits rise for Newsquest Scotland"},{"date": "2012-07-25T21:21:47Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The conservative hierarchy in the Scottish Catholic church still carries on like a force in the land, but in truth it is a force in a country that is fading away. With singular ill taste on Tuesday, the archbishop-elect of Glasgow, Philip Tartaglia, linked the untimely death of the popular MP and one-time priest, David Cairns, to his homosexuality. A few weeks before, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the archbishop of Edinburgh and St Andrews, pledged fresh funds for campaigns against gay marriage. The move followed the ignoble tradition of propaganda against an equal age of consent, civil partnerships and same-sex adoption. But the church was on the wrong side of history in these cases, and \u2013 after Wednesday's bold words from deputy first minister Nicola Sturgeon \u2013 it is set to be on the losing side again.Ms Sturgeon spoke on the close of a consultation which confirmed that the Catholic and, indeed, many other churches retain their power to chivvy their faithful into picking up a pen: two-thirds of a record-breaking 77,000 respondees registered resistance to the change. This power of the postbag has awed parliamentarians in Holyrood and Westminster, sometimes cowing ministers into backing down, as when Labour dropped plans to force faiths schools to offer some places to irreligious pupils. Ms Sturgeon, however, shrewdly refuses to measure public opinion through letters alone, pointing instead to representative surveys which show a rough two-to-one margin in favour of same sex marriage, which is broadly mirrored across the generality of Catholics who have better things to do than respond to consultations.She is thus pressing ahead with legislation more radical than that being considered in London. Whereas Holyrood plans to enable both civil and religious ceremonies, with the necessary opt-outs for churches which could not bless gay marriage in good conscience, the coalition will only allow civil gay weddings. This is bizarre, seeing as the same coalition recently moved to allow civil partnerships in synagogues, meeting houses and chapels that are keen to host them. The bar on religious weddings was meant to reassure the faithful, but the Church of England has twisted the weird and novel distinction between religious and secular marriages into an excuse to oppose the whole reform, while it is left to Labour's Yvette Cooper to speak for liberal Jews and Quakers who resent the continuing bar on them offering ceremonial equality.The Scottish National party has a far from spotless record on gay rights. It backed the right of Catholic adoption agencies to snub gay couples, and took funds from the evangelical businessman, Brian Souter, who made such a noise about clause 2A (Scotland's section 28). This time, however, Scotland is calling the cardinal's bluff. London could learn from that.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Gay marriage: Scotland the brave"},{"date": "2012-08-31T21:45:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Coillabus is an unusual new turf-roofed eco-lodge on the Oa peninsula in the south-east of Islay. Caithness flagstone and oak floors, local tweed furnishing, a sauna and a cedar hot-tub combine in a cosy retreat that sleeps four, with good access to cliff walks, trout fishing (a licence at the nearby angling club is included), golf or tasting the island's famous whisky.\u2022 07824 567435, coillabus.com. From \u00a3250 a night for a couple, or \u00a3300 for three or four (three-night minimum, fifth night free); from \u00a31,400/\u00a31,600 for a week. Ferries (calmac.co.uk) run four times a day until 20 October from Kennacraig to Islay, or Flybe (flybe.com) flies twice daily from Glasgow International to IslayWelsh cottage specialist Sheepskin Life has branched out to Scotland. The Ferry House on Loch Creran, near Oban, has simple interiors, industrial- style lighting, underfloor heating, views of the shore and 66 acres of private fields and forests to explore.\u2022 01865 764087, sheepskinlife.com, from \u00a3600 for three nights, sleeps fourResembling a princess's castle with its white turrets, but with sleek glamorous interiors, The Cairn is a 10-bedroom boutique hotel opened in Auchterarder, Perthshire, in April. It's part of Aurora Hotels, a small chain of luxury hotels across central Scotland, which is also opening the Colessio Hotel in Stirling later this year.\u2022 01764 662634, cairnlodge.co.uk, doubles from \u00a3165 B&B A 19th-century hunting lodge built for the Duke of Argyll is now the Putechan Hotel, in Bellochantuy on the western edge of Kintyre, with views of the isles of Islay, Jura and Gigha, a private pebble beach, champagne picnics and a restaurant serving seafood including Loch Fyne oysters, and local whiskies. The rooms are a bit plain and dark, but it's a great location. \u2022 01583 421323, theputechan.co.uk, doubles from \u00a360It's a bit of a way off now, but Malmaison is opening a hotel in Dundee next summer, on the site of the vacant Tay hotel, built in 1889. It will have 91 rooms and suites, a brasserie, whisky snug and wine- tasting room. The hotel will be part of a huge \u00a31bn redevelopment called the Dundee Central Waterfront, which will include improved transport, a new civic space, railway station, a new gridiron street layout, and a new V&A museum (to open in 2015). \u2022 dundeewaterfront.com Birdwatchers can spend a day with one of the biggest collections of owls in the world, from tiny scops owls to giant Siberian eagle owls at the new Scottish Owl Centre, which has moved to Polkemmet country park, near Whitburn in West Lothian, a lovely spot for a walk and a picnic.\u2022 0150-122 8184, scottishowlcentre.com, adult \u00a37.50, child \u00a35.50, family \u00a324 The Stevenson Way is a new wilderness walking route inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's 1886 book Kidnapped, in which young lad David Balfour is kidnapped by his wicked uncle and put on a boat bound for America, only to be shipwrecked on the island of Mull on the way \u2013 a tale based on a true story. The new route involves a 230-mile hike from the island of Erraid on the west coast of Mull to Edinburgh. The route is not waymarked, so trekkers need to be confident with using a map and compass.\u2022 stevensonway.org.ukFletcher's cottage spa is a rustic yet luxurious spa in the grounds of Archerfield House, a 17th-century manor house in Dirleton, East Lothian. Innovative features include a Himalayan salt room and private wooden bath huts serviced by a personal spa butler.\u2022 01620 897050, archerfieldhouse.com/spa. From \u00a3385 for an overnight spa break for two, including B&B in a luxury pavilion room and two spa treatmentsIn Edinburg, the Michelin-starred Galvin brothers have opened their first restaurant in Scotland, The Pompadour by Galvin, at the Caledonian on Princes Street, which will relaunch as a Waldorf Astoria hotel on 17 September after a \u00a324m restoration. A further, less formal, restaurant, the Galvin Brasserie de Luxe, with a circular dining bar, will open after the relaunch. Both will rely on great Scottish ingredients.\u2022 0131-222 8888, waldorfastoria3.hilton.comCanoeists and kayakers could consider paddling the Great Glen Canoe Trail, a new 60-mile route from Fort William to Inverness along canals, rivers and lochs. The trip will take at least five days but there are plenty of campsites en route.\u2022 greatglencanoetrail.infoCameron House, a swanky hotel on the shore of Loch Lomond, has an innovative take on fitness breaks. Earlier this summer it launched a military-style Boot Camp, with group sessions of outdoor circuit training and orienteering around the Trossachs and the loch. There's a spa to luxuriate in afterwards, and healthy meals such as poached eggs, baked salmon and wild rice. \u2022 0871 222 4681, devere-hotels.co.uk. Camp \u00a3149pp a day (open to non-guests), including breakfast and lunch; rooms from \u00a3169 B&B The UK's most northerly arts hub, the Mareel creative centre, opened last week in the Shetland Isles, and will feature a programme of live music and film, plus facilities for local creative types. The striking new building is on the quayside in Lerwick, next to the Shetland Museum.\u2022 shetlandarts.orgMore news and ideas at visitscotland.com/surprise", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel", "Hotels", "Day trips"], "title": "New holidays and hotels in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-08-01T23:43:31Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A split appears to be emerging within the coalition over the future of Royal Bank of Scotland.It is believed that Liberal Democrat Vince Cable is arguing that it should be nationalised to bolster lending to small businesses, but the business secretary, who has made no secret of his belief that 100% control of RBS compared with 83% now would boost lending, appears to be failing to win the support of Cabinet colleagues, including the chancellor, George Osborne.The bank, which is due to report a first-half loss on Friday, is arguing that it is lending as much as it can, but Cable is thought to feel that Osborne could do more to foster lending given the lack of growth in the economy.The Treasury is adamant that full-scale nationalisation, which would cost another \u00a35bn, is not on the cards. \"We are committed to repairing and returning RBS to full health so that it is able to support the UK economy in the future, and the current strategy is working to achieve that. The government's policy has always been to return RBS to the private sector, but only when it delivers value for money for the taxpayer,\" the Treasury said.In March, Cable wrote to David Cameron to urge him to use RBS as a vehicle for lending to small businesses. Cable gave a speech shortly afterwards acknowledging the problems with EU state aid.Last week, the Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott wrote in the Guardian: \"If RBS, the worst non-lender by far, won't do its basic job, we must nationalise it\".But the RBS chief executive Stephen Hester indicated in an interview with the Guardian last week that his aim remained to loosen the state's ties on the bank. He expects the bank to exit the asset protection scheme -set up to insure \u00a3300bn of the bank's most toxic assets (loans) \u2013 later this year.The business secretary is thought to feel emboldened by the botched lending schemes already introduced by Osborne who presided over an economy which contracted by 0.7% in the last quarter. A national loan guarantee scheme has already been replaced by funding for lending which was launched this week.", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland future divides coalition"},{"date": "2012-07-17T18:31:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government has postponed a decision on whether to legislate to make it the first part of the UK to allow same-sex marriage.If legislation is introduced members of the Scottish parliament are expected to vote through the measure. This will put pressure on MPs in Westminster to support the prime minister in his attempts to do the same for England and Wales, despite strong opposition within his own party and from the Church of England.A Scottish government spokesperson said a decision was still expected later this month but the cabinet needed more time to \"get both the principle and the detail\" right.The cabinet has, however, rejected a referendum. \"Cabinet views this as an issue of conscience not constitution,\" said an official.The Equality Network, the lesbian gay and transexual charity that campaigns for equal marriage in Scotland, said it was \"hugely disappointing that yet again we are being told to wait for an answer that never seems to come\".", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "UK news", "Gay marriage", "LGBT rights", "Marriage", "Life and style", "Sexuality", "Equality", "Society", "Law"], "title": "Scotland delays same-sex marriage legal decision"},{"date": "2012-07-03T23:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Two people are missing and two others have been picked up by helicopter after two Tornado jets crashed off the north-east coast of Scotland, the Ministry of Defence said.The two were rescued from the Moray Firth and taken to hospital in Inverness. No further details were given about their conditionon Tuesday night.The search for the two missing airmen was called off at 10.45pm. The Ministry of Defence said it would continue looking for them this morning.The incident involved two GR4 Tornado aircraft, a type of combat jet that is in use in Afghanistan and was used extensively over Libya last year. The aircraft flew from RAF Lossiemouth, on the Moray coast, the UK's biggest fast-jet base and home to three operational squadrons of Tornado GR4s, including the Tornado GR4 Operational Conversion Unit, which trains aircrew.Each plane carries two crew. It is understood the jets were flying together and were involved in a practice bombing run shortly before the crash.Around 15 lifeboat volunteers joined the rescue operation in three boats after reports that the jets came down about 25 miles south of Wick, Highland. Aberdeen coastguard contacted the Royal National Lifeboat Institution at about 1.50pm.Boats were sent from Wick, Invergordon in Highland, and Buckie in Moray, towards the Beatrice oil field area, supported by a helicopter from Stornoway in the Western Isles. The crew from the Buckie boat reported that two people were taken from the sea by helicopter. As light faded over the crash site , the Buckie lifeboat brought some aircraft wreckage ashore.In a statement, Group Captain Ian Gale, station commander at RAF Lossiemouth, confirmed the loss of the two Tornado GR4s and said four aircrew were involved. \"The circumstances remain uncertain but clearly this is a very serious incident,\" he said.He said it was an \"evolving situation\" and he was not prepared \"to comment at this time\" on the condition of the two crew who had been recovered, or the circumstances surrounding the incident, except to say his thoughts were with the families and rescue operations were continuing.\"I am confident that the Tornado aircraft on this station are operated as safely as they possibly can be. However, today's incident is a stark reminder that the military operations and training we conduct are not without risk.\"It is not the first incident involving aircraft from RAF Lossiemouth. An official investigation found that RAF Tornado aircraft have been involved in crashes in Scotland in recent years.In January last year, two RAF crew were rescued after their Tornado GR4 from the base came down in the sea off the west coast of Scotland. The crew ejected before the plane hit the water near Gairloch, Wester Ross.The Tornado GR4 is a two-seat attack aircraft, capable of delivering a variety of weapons and reaching a maximum altitude of 15,000 metres (50,000ft).In July 2009, an RAF pilot and navigator were killed when their Tornado F3 jet crashed into a hillside in Argyll. Flight Lieutenant Kenneth Thompson, 27, and Flight Lieutenant Nigel Morton, 43, died in the crash near the village of Arrochar.\u2022 This article was amended on 4 July 2012 to correct details about the squadrons based at RAF Lossiemouth.", "tags": ["Royal Air Force", "Military", "UK news", "Scotland", "Plane crashes"], "title": "Two RAF Tornado jets crash in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-09-28T07:30:08Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If you are a foster carer in England, you will receive at least \u00a3114 a week to spend on each child you look after. The same applies if you foster in Northern Ireland, while in Wales it is more than \u00a3140. But if you are a foster carer in Scotland, the allowance varies widely, with one in five local authorities providing less than \u00a3100 a week for the youngest children.That's because in the rest of the UK, governments recommend a minimum allowance and expect all fostering services to give this amount to all foster carers. In Scotland, the government plays no such role, leaving local authorities and independent fostering providers to set their own rates.The absence of a national allowance in Scotland has led to foster carers receiving hugely differing amounts depending on where they live, and hundreds being out of pocket.Meanwhile, those fostering in England, Northern Ireland and Wales will, by law, be looking after a maximum of three unrelated fostered children at once (the exception being larger sibling groups). North of the border, foster carers might be caring for as many as seven unrelated fostered children, as well as any of their own, and struggling to give them the attention they require, meet their needs and support their education. They may also have to work with a separate social worker for each child.Scotland so often sets the standard for social care issues in the UK, but on fostering it has taken a back seat for too long. As the leading charity working to make foster care better across the UK, we have lobbied on the lack of minimum allowances and limits on the number of fostered children \u2013 known as placement limits \u2013 over the past decade. And now this work is bearing fruit.In early July the Scottish government published a consultation on its proposed children and young people bill. From a fostering perspective, this legislation could not only bring Scotland in line with the rest of the UK, but actually mean that we are taking a lead.In addition to minimum allowances and placement limits, the consultation talks about pay for foster carers, something that has yet to be considered seriously by governments elsewhere. Across the UK, only half of foster carers receive any form of fee, with many of these being paid below the equivalent of the minimum wage.No other profession that works with children is expected to do so without pay. The Fostering Network believes that levels of pay must be comparable to children's residential social workers. And in our survey of children living with foster families in Scotland, released on Friday 28 September, the overwhelming majority (90%) said they were in favour of foster carers getting a wage or fee like staff in children's homes, challenging the commonly held view that children and young people in care do not think foster carers should be paid.Not only do we know these changes would improve the lives of fostered children and the families that care for them \u2013 thereby encouraging foster carers to foster for longer \u2013 we believe that they would help fostering services recruit the 1,000 new foster carers needed across Scotland.The consultation period is now closed, and we await the publication of the bill itself. Throughout its passage through the Scottish parliament, we'll be lobbying ministers and MSPs, and will be urging all those involved or interested in fostering to do the same. This is a once-in-a-decade chance to shape fostering for the next generation. This is the time to make foster care fair in Scotland.Sara Lurie is director of the Fostering Network ScotlandThis article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the social care network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Social Care Network", "Children", "Scotland", "Policy", "Fostering", "Children", "Society"], "title": "Time to make foster care fairer in Scotland"},{"date": "2012-11-29T22:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This Friday, 30 November, is St Andrew's Day, feast day of the patron saint of Scotland \u2013 and the perfect excuse to dedicate this week's RR to all things Scottish.Post your suggestions for the best songs about Scotland below and we'll assemble the ones we like best in a playlist next week.If you want your nominations to be considered for the playlist, then post them before midday on Monday.Each week, the playlist will be compiled by a different volunteer from the Readers Recommend community. To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered:\u2013 Provide reasons why it's a worthy contender.\u2013 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song's words.\u2013 Provide a link to the song. We prefer YouTube, but Spotify, SoundCloud and Grooveshark are fine too.\u2022 Listen to others' suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.Reading this on mobile? Click here to listen\u2022 Thanks to DarceysDad for suggesting this week's topic. If you can think of a good theme for Readers Recommend, or if you'd like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.\u2022 There's a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \"zedded\", at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \"zedded\", \"donds\" and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the 'Spill blog.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Scotland"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs about Scotland"},{"date": "2012-11-29T22:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This Friday, 30 November, is St Andrew's Day, feast day of the patron saint of Scotland \u2013 and the perfect excuse to dedicate this week's RR to all things Scottish.Post your suggestions for the best songs about Scotland below and we'll assemble the ones we like best in a playlist next week.If you want your nominations to be considered for the playlist, then post them before midday on Monday.Each week, the playlist will be compiled by a different volunteer from the Readers Recommend community. To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered:\u2013 Provide reasons why it's a worthy contender.\u2013 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song's words.\u2013 Provide a link to the song. We prefer YouTube, but Spotify, SoundCloud and Grooveshark are fine too.\u2022 Listen to others' suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.Reading this on mobile? Click here to listen\u2022 Thanks to DarceysDad for suggesting this week's topic. If you can think of a good theme for Readers Recommend, or if you'd like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.\u2022 There's a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \"zedded\", at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \"zedded\", \"donds\" and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the 'Spill blog.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Scotland"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs about Scotland"},{"date": "2012-12-23T00:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I had prepared myself to experience some discomfort before I read \"Settlers and Colonists\", the essay by Alasdair Gray that appears to have loosened the corsetry of Scotland's delicate arts and media establishment. Gray's work is included in an anthology published by Word Power Books nine days ago entitled Unstated: Writers on Scottish Independence. Such has been the apoplexy it has engendered among the nation's cultural Sanhedrin I imagined he must have called for some sort of anti-English Kristallnacht, or worse: demanded the lowering of the Union flag on all Scottish government buildings, save on David Beckham's birthday.Here I must declare that Alasdair Gray and I have a bit of form between us. The shadow of his majestic 1981 novel Lanark: A Life in Four Books hung over my utterly feckless university career and probably helped put it out of its misery. What was I doing drinking and empathising with other duffel-coated dilettantes when I ought to have been saving Glasgow from the tide of greed, corruption and lust that Gray had prophesied in Lanark? No other book has unnerved me as much as this one nor conveyed such a powerful sense of time and place. It haunts me still and, despite several re-readings, I expect I will go to my grave never having unravelled all the threads of its dark magic.The settlers and colonists referred to in the title of Gray's essay are some English senior administrators who have flourished in Scottish public life, principally in the arts, and whom he holds responsible for a failure to \"help creativity shine at home and abroad\", an epithet contained in the lofty mission statement of Creative Scotland. Gray constructs a thesis that draws important distinctions between \"colonists\" and \"settlers\". Colonists are characterised by their refusal to engage fully with Scotland, accompanied by a demonstrable aversion to promoting indigenous Scottish art; settlers by their long-term commitment to Scotland and an eagerness to stimulate growth among Scottish artists.For venturing such an opinion, Gray has been branded a \"disgrace\" and stands accused of being \"anti-English\" and fomenting racism. Yet how can he be branded \"anti-English\" for declaring his desire to see more of them, not less? \"English settlers,\" he states, \"are as much a part of Scotland as Asian restaurateurs and shopkeepers or the Italians who brought us fish and chips.\"Anti-Englishness in Scotland depresses me. Whenever it occurs, I feel that our country is diminished by it and is made to look as though it is insecure and too eager to blame others for our misfortunes. I love English culture and English sport and, virtually without exception, I have found the English people I have encountered to be generous, humorous and affectionate, qualities I rate higher than most others. They do not take life too seriously. If Scotland is to become independent, it is my sincere wish that many more will choose to live and work here. Often, they save us from ourselves. Gray's essay is not in the slightest anti-English; to detect even a hint of it you would require the services of the Jodrell Bank telescope.Indeed, there is very little in it that could even be construed as criticism of English \"colonists\" in the arts, the sector of which Gray has most experience. Instead, he reserves most of his disgust for those Scottish local politicians and municipal chief executives who have deemed no Scots to be capable of administering our most significant arts institutions. If WB Yeats and Lady Gregory had displayed such a high-handed dismissal of native talent when they established Dublin's Abbey theatre in 1904, argues Gray, it is doubtful if Irish art and culture would be anywhere near as vibrant as it is today.Perhaps the fiercest criticism of Gray has arisen from his decision to cite Vicky Featherstone, the outgoing director of the National Theatre of Scotland, as a salient example of an English \"colonist\". Featherstone has been a splendid chief of this body during her six-year tenure, in which she has been responsible for staging work that has resonated globally. Yet her post makes her a high-profile figure and she is simply being naive if, as she revealed in an interview last week, she felt \"embattled and defensive\" at previously aired criticism of her perceived lack of enthusiasm for Scottish work. She is an admirable and gifted woman who will get over it.Gray is not suggesting that all of Scotland's top administrative posts must be filled by Scots. Indeed, a senior appointee who has not emerged from the turbid waters of Scotland's cultural expanse will thus arrive bearing no malice nor be compromised by tribal loyalties. He is simply asking why so few Scots have occupied the plum positions and expressing a preference for English candidates who want to stay for the long haul.When I first read Settlers and Colonists I felt a growing sense of shame, but not because it in any way defiled Scotland. Instead, I was reminded yet again how little I know of my country's artistic and cultural heritage. The most important ballot in which any of us will ever participate is only two years away. We won't be able to change its outcome back and forth every five years. As such, it demands of me that I increase my knowledge and understanding of what Scotland is, what it might become and my place in it. And it summons me to engage in the difficult and emotional issues that, of necessity, must be addressed.Alasdair Gray's essay elegantly and succinctly introduced a crucial question that Scotland must debate: how important to the health and wellbeing of the nation is it to provide the means and the opportunity to express ourselves artistically and culturally?Among those who railed against Gray last week were people I know and admire and I am assuming each of them read his essay in its entirety. So I would simply ask that they reread it with a little more care and due diligence. And I would entreat them this time to leave their agendas to the side.", "tags": ["Alasdair Gray", "Society", "Scottish independence", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland should thank the English settlers | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2012-11-29T22:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This Friday, 30 November, is St Andrew's Day, feast day of the patron saint of Scotland \u2013 and the perfect excuse to dedicate this week's RR to all things Scottish.Post your suggestions for the best songs about Scotland below and we'll assemble the ones we like best in a playlist next week.If you want your nominations to be considered for the playlist, then post them before midday on Monday.Each week, the playlist will be compiled by a different volunteer from the Readers Recommend community. To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered:\u2013 Provide reasons why it's a worthy contender.\u2013 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song's words.\u2013 Provide a link to the song. We prefer YouTube, but Spotify, SoundCloud and Grooveshark are fine too.\u2022 Listen to others' suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.Reading this on mobile? Click here to listen\u2022 Thanks to DarceysDad for suggesting this week's topic. If you can think of a good theme for Readers Recommend, or if you'd like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.\u2022 There's a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \"zedded\", at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \"zedded\", \"donds\" and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the 'Spill blog.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Scotland"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs about Scotland"},{"date": "2012-12-23T00:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I had prepared myself to experience some discomfort before I read \"Settlers and Colonists\", the essay by Alasdair Gray that appears to have loosened the corsetry of Scotland's delicate arts and media establishment. Gray's work is included in an anthology published by Word Power Books nine days ago entitled Unstated: Writers on Scottish Independence. Such has been the apoplexy it has engendered among the nation's cultural Sanhedrin I imagined he must have called for some sort of anti-English Kristallnacht, or worse: demanded the lowering of the Union flag on all Scottish government buildings, save on David Beckham's birthday.Here I must declare that Alasdair Gray and I have a bit of form between us. The shadow of his majestic 1981 novel Lanark: A Life in Four Books hung over my utterly feckless university career and probably helped put it out of its misery. What was I doing drinking and empathising with other duffel-coated dilettantes when I ought to have been saving Glasgow from the tide of greed, corruption and lust that Gray had prophesied in Lanark? No other book has unnerved me as much as this one nor conveyed such a powerful sense of time and place. It haunts me still and, despite several re-readings, I expect I will go to my grave never having unravelled all the threads of its dark magic.The settlers and colonists referred to in the title of Gray's essay are some English senior administrators who have flourished in Scottish public life, principally in the arts, and whom he holds responsible for a failure to \"help creativity shine at home and abroad\", an epithet contained in the lofty mission statement of Creative Scotland. Gray constructs a thesis that draws important distinctions between \"colonists\" and \"settlers\". Colonists are characterised by their refusal to engage fully with Scotland, accompanied by a demonstrable aversion to promoting indigenous Scottish art; settlers by their long-term commitment to Scotland and an eagerness to stimulate growth among Scottish artists.For venturing such an opinion, Gray has been branded a \"disgrace\" and stands accused of being \"anti-English\" and fomenting racism. Yet how can he be branded \"anti-English\" for declaring his desire to see more of them, not less? \"English settlers,\" he states, \"are as much a part of Scotland as Asian restaurateurs and shopkeepers or the Italians who brought us fish and chips.\"Anti-Englishness in Scotland depresses me. Whenever it occurs, I feel that our country is diminished by it and is made to look as though it is insecure and too eager to blame others for our misfortunes. I love English culture and English sport and, virtually without exception, I have found the English people I have encountered to be generous, humorous and affectionate, qualities I rate higher than most others. They do not take life too seriously. If Scotland is to become independent, it is my sincere wish that many more will choose to live and work here. Often, they save us from ourselves. Gray's essay is not in the slightest anti-English; to detect even a hint of it you would require the services of the Jodrell Bank telescope.Indeed, there is very little in it that could even be construed as criticism of English \"colonists\" in the arts, the sector of which Gray has most experience. Instead, he reserves most of his disgust for those Scottish local politicians and municipal chief executives who have deemed no Scots to be capable of administering our most significant arts institutions. If WB Yeats and Lady Gregory had displayed such a high-handed dismissal of native talent when they established Dublin's Abbey theatre in 1904, argues Gray, it is doubtful if Irish art and culture would be anywhere near as vibrant as it is today.Perhaps the fiercest criticism of Gray has arisen from his decision to cite Vicky Featherstone, the outgoing director of the National Theatre of Scotland, as a salient example of an English \"colonist\". Featherstone has been a splendid chief of this body during her six-year tenure, in which she has been responsible for staging work that has resonated globally. Yet her post makes her a high-profile figure and she is simply being naive if, as she revealed in an interview last week, she felt \"embattled and defensive\" at previously aired criticism of her perceived lack of enthusiasm for Scottish work. She is an admirable and gifted woman who will get over it.Gray is not suggesting that all of Scotland's top administrative posts must be filled by Scots. Indeed, a senior appointee who has not emerged from the turbid waters of Scotland's cultural expanse will thus arrive bearing no malice nor be compromised by tribal loyalties. He is simply asking why so few Scots have occupied the plum positions and expressing a preference for English candidates who want to stay for the long haul.When I first read Settlers and Colonists I felt a growing sense of shame, but not because it in any way defiled Scotland. Instead, I was reminded yet again how little I know of my country's artistic and cultural heritage. The most important ballot in which any of us will ever participate is only two years away. We won't be able to change its outcome back and forth every five years. As such, it demands of me that I increase my knowledge and understanding of what Scotland is, what it might become and my place in it. And it summons me to engage in the difficult and emotional issues that, of necessity, must be addressed.Alasdair Gray's essay elegantly and succinctly introduced a crucial question that Scotland must debate: how important to the health and wellbeing of the nation is it to provide the means and the opportunity to express ourselves artistically and culturally?Among those who railed against Gray last week were people I know and admire and I am assuming each of them read his essay in its entirety. So I would simply ask that they reread it with a little more care and due diligence. And I would entreat them this time to leave their agendas to the side.", "tags": ["Alasdair Gray", "Society", "Scottish independence", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland should thank the English settlers | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2012-12-06T14:27:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We start with Idlewild's In Remote Part/Scottish Fiction, partly because the refrain \"Scottish friction, Scottish fiction\" could be a subheading for this selection. There was much debate on the RR blog this week about which artists were suitable candidates for inclusion. For instance, allowing a (relatively young) Englishman to distil many decades' worth of Scottish songs into a 12-song list full of non-Scottish artists caused blogger Sciencenotfashion quite some concern on St Andrew's Day.I suspect that, despite their Edinburgh origins, Ballboy's I Hate Scotland won't placate him any. But I must assure him we're not here to bash the Scots, but to sing about Scotland. Indeed, notorious English curmudgeon Mark E Smith proclaims himself a fan of Scotland's capital in The Fall's Edinburgh Man, and Paul McCartney shot to a multimillion-selling No 1 with Wings' paean to the Mull of Kintyre, a song blessed with probably the most RR love over the week, much to my surprise. The Waterboys gave us both English and Gaelic versions of Peace of Iona. I've picked the latter, in a vain attempt to distract from the fact that the other two songs came from a Liverpudlian and a Mancunian.But of course, such Sassenach invasions have often caused resentment over the centuries, as is eloquently expressed \u2013 in Gaelic \u2013 in F\u00e0bharach's Canan Nan Gaidheal (\"the disease which has blanched from the south\"). Many Scots would be only too glad to see the back of the English, after what has been wrought upon them. Mogwai have one particular person in mind, but anarcho-punks and all-round activists Oi Polloi have a more encompassing symbol they'd like to shoo back over the border. (I don't speak Gaelic; probably a good thing judging by the venomous guitar blast!)Is this all getting a bit fractious? Then let's pause, and take a few minutes to wonder at the prodigious, sadly lost talent that was Martyn Bennett. Mixing the traditional with the modern to great effect, Martyn packed a lot into his [just less than] 34 years, musically and geographically, before succumbing to cancer. He was born in Canada and came to Scotland at the age of six, when his mother returned home after several years abroad. Migration is a fertile topic for Scottish musicians. There's a part in Billy Connolly's comedy routine where he discusses the Scottish diaspora, and the many songs that came out of it. In Letter from America, the Proclaimers wonder what the emigrants would miss; poet Hamish Henderson's song is a hope-filled, revisionist view of the role of the Scots out in the world (national treasure Dick Gaughan sings this version). And should the emigrants want to come home, Runrig's live audience ensure there's a rousing welcome for them.Idlewild \u2013 In Remote Part/Scottish FictionBallboy \u2013 I Hate ScotlandThe Fall \u2013 Edinburgh ManPaul McCartney and Wings \u2013 Mull of KintyreThe Waterboys \u2013 S\u00edoch\u00e1in IonaF\u00e0bharach \u2013 Canan Nan GaidhealMogwai \u2013 George Square Thatcher Death PartyOi Polloi \u2013 Union Jack? Thall's Cac!Martyn Bennett \u2013 Aye?The Proclaimers \u2013 Letter from AmericaDick Gaughan \u2013 Freedom Come All YeRunrig \u2013 Loch Lomond (Live version)\u2022 Listen to these songs on a YouTube playlist.\u2022 See all the readers' recommendations on last week's blog, from which DarceysDad selected the songs above.\u2022 Here's a Spotify playlist containing readers' recommendations on this theme.Reading on a mobile? Listen on Spotify", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs about Scotland \u2013 results"},{"date": "2012-11-29T22:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This Friday, 30 November, is St Andrew's Day, feast day of the patron saint of Scotland \u2013 and the perfect excuse to dedicate this week's RR to all things Scottish.Post your suggestions for the best songs about Scotland below and we'll assemble the ones we like best in a playlist next week.If you want your nominations to be considered for the playlist, then post them before midday on Monday.Each week, the playlist will be compiled by a different volunteer from the Readers Recommend community. To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered:\u2013 Provide reasons why it's a worthy contender.\u2013 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song's words.\u2013 Provide a link to the song. We prefer YouTube, but Spotify, SoundCloud and Grooveshark are fine too.\u2022 Listen to others' suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.Reading this on mobile? Click here to listen\u2022 Thanks to DarceysDad for suggesting this week's topic. If you can think of a good theme for Readers Recommend, or if you'd like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.\u2022 There's a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \"zedded\", at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \"zedded\", \"donds\" and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the 'Spill blog.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Scotland"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs about Scotland"},{"date": "2012-12-23T00:09:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I had prepared myself to experience some discomfort before I read \"Settlers and Colonists\", the essay by Alasdair Gray that appears to have loosened the corsetry of Scotland's delicate arts and media establishment. Gray's work is included in an anthology published by Word Power Books nine days ago entitled Unstated: Writers on Scottish Independence. Such has been the apoplexy it has engendered among the nation's cultural Sanhedrin I imagined he must have called for some sort of anti-English Kristallnacht, or worse: demanded the lowering of the Union flag on all Scottish government buildings, save on David Beckham's birthday.Here I must declare that Alasdair Gray and I have a bit of form between us. The shadow of his majestic 1981 novel Lanark: A Life in Four Books hung over my utterly feckless university career and probably helped put it out of its misery. What was I doing drinking and empathising with other duffel-coated dilettantes when I ought to have been saving Glasgow from the tide of greed, corruption and lust that Gray had prophesied in Lanark? No other book has unnerved me as much as this one nor conveyed such a powerful sense of time and place. It haunts me still and, despite several re-readings, I expect I will go to my grave never having unravelled all the threads of its dark magic.The settlers and colonists referred to in the title of Gray's essay are some English senior administrators who have flourished in Scottish public life, principally in the arts, and whom he holds responsible for a failure to \"help creativity shine at home and abroad\", an epithet contained in the lofty mission statement of Creative Scotland. Gray constructs a thesis that draws important distinctions between \"colonists\" and \"settlers\". Colonists are characterised by their refusal to engage fully with Scotland, accompanied by a demonstrable aversion to promoting indigenous Scottish art; settlers by their long-term commitment to Scotland and an eagerness to stimulate growth among Scottish artists.For venturing such an opinion, Gray has been branded a \"disgrace\" and stands accused of being \"anti-English\" and fomenting racism. Yet how can he be branded \"anti-English\" for declaring his desire to see more of them, not less? \"English settlers,\" he states, \"are as much a part of Scotland as Asian restaurateurs and shopkeepers or the Italians who brought us fish and chips.\"Anti-Englishness in Scotland depresses me. Whenever it occurs, I feel that our country is diminished by it and is made to look as though it is insecure and too eager to blame others for our misfortunes. I love English culture and English sport and, virtually without exception, I have found the English people I have encountered to be generous, humorous and affectionate, qualities I rate higher than most others. They do not take life too seriously. If Scotland is to become independent, it is my sincere wish that many more will choose to live and work here. Often, they save us from ourselves. Gray's essay is not in the slightest anti-English; to detect even a hint of it you would require the services of the Jodrell Bank telescope.Indeed, there is very little in it that could even be construed as criticism of English \"colonists\" in the arts, the sector of which Gray has most experience. Instead, he reserves most of his disgust for those Scottish local politicians and municipal chief executives who have deemed no Scots to be capable of administering our most significant arts institutions. If WB Yeats and Lady Gregory had displayed such a high-handed dismissal of native talent when they established Dublin's Abbey theatre in 1904, argues Gray, it is doubtful if Irish art and culture would be anywhere near as vibrant as it is today.Perhaps the fiercest criticism of Gray has arisen from his decision to cite Vicky Featherstone, the outgoing director of the National Theatre of Scotland, as a salient example of an English \"colonist\". Featherstone has been a splendid chief of this body during her six-year tenure, in which she has been responsible for staging work that has resonated globally. Yet her post makes her a high-profile figure and she is simply being naive if, as she revealed in an interview last week, she felt \"embattled and defensive\" at previously aired criticism of her perceived lack of enthusiasm for Scottish work. She is an admirable and gifted woman who will get over it.Gray is not suggesting that all of Scotland's top administrative posts must be filled by Scots. Indeed, a senior appointee who has not emerged from the turbid waters of Scotland's cultural expanse will thus arrive bearing no malice nor be compromised by tribal loyalties. He is simply asking why so few Scots have occupied the plum positions and expressing a preference for English candidates who want to stay for the long haul.When I first read Settlers and Colonists I felt a growing sense of shame, but not because it in any way defiled Scotland. Instead, I was reminded yet again how little I know of my country's artistic and cultural heritage. The most important ballot in which any of us will ever participate is only two years away. We won't be able to change its outcome back and forth every five years. As such, it demands of me that I increase my knowledge and understanding of what Scotland is, what it might become and my place in it. And it summons me to engage in the difficult and emotional issues that, of necessity, must be addressed.Alasdair Gray's essay elegantly and succinctly introduced a crucial question that Scotland must debate: how important to the health and wellbeing of the nation is it to provide the means and the opportunity to express ourselves artistically and culturally?Among those who railed against Gray last week were people I know and admire and I am assuming each of them read his essay in its entirety. So I would simply ask that they reread it with a little more care and due diligence. And I would entreat them this time to leave their agendas to the side.", "tags": ["Alasdair Gray", "Society", "Scottish independence", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland should thank the English settlers | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2012-12-06T14:27:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We start with Idlewild's In Remote Part/Scottish Fiction, partly because the refrain \"Scottish friction, Scottish fiction\" could be a subheading for this selection. There was much debate on the RR blog this week about which artists were suitable candidates for inclusion. For instance, allowing a (relatively young) Englishman to distil many decades' worth of Scottish songs into a 12-song list full of non-Scottish artists caused blogger Sciencenotfashion quite some concern on St Andrew's Day.I suspect that, despite their Edinburgh origins, Ballboy's I Hate Scotland won't placate him any. But I must assure him we're not here to bash the Scots, but to sing about Scotland. Indeed, notorious English curmudgeon Mark E Smith proclaims himself a fan of Scotland's capital in The Fall's Edinburgh Man, and Paul McCartney shot to a multimillion-selling No 1 with Wings' paean to the Mull of Kintyre, a song blessed with probably the most RR love over the week, much to my surprise. The Waterboys gave us both English and Gaelic versions of Peace of Iona. I've picked the latter, in a vain attempt to distract from the fact that the other two songs came from a Liverpudlian and a Mancunian.But of course, such Sassenach invasions have often caused resentment over the centuries, as is eloquently expressed \u2013 in Gaelic \u2013 in F\u00e0bharach's Canan Nan Gaidheal (\"the disease which has blanched from the south\"). Many Scots would be only too glad to see the back of the English, after what has been wrought upon them. Mogwai have one particular person in mind, but anarcho-punks and all-round activists Oi Polloi have a more encompassing symbol they'd like to shoo back over the border. (I don't speak Gaelic; probably a good thing judging by the venomous guitar blast!)Is this all getting a bit fractious? Then let's pause, and take a few minutes to wonder at the prodigious, sadly lost talent that was Martyn Bennett. Mixing the traditional with the modern to great effect, Martyn packed a lot into his [just less than] 34 years, musically and geographically, before succumbing to cancer. He was born in Canada and came to Scotland at the age of six, when his mother returned home after several years abroad. Migration is a fertile topic for Scottish musicians. There's a part in Billy Connolly's comedy routine where he discusses the Scottish diaspora, and the many songs that came out of it. In Letter from America, the Proclaimers wonder what the emigrants would miss; poet Hamish Henderson's song is a hope-filled, revisionist view of the role of the Scots out in the world (national treasure Dick Gaughan sings this version). And should the emigrants want to come home, Runrig's live audience ensure there's a rousing welcome for them.Idlewild \u2013 In Remote Part/Scottish FictionBallboy \u2013 I Hate ScotlandThe Fall \u2013 Edinburgh ManPaul McCartney and Wings \u2013 Mull of KintyreThe Waterboys \u2013 S\u00edoch\u00e1in IonaF\u00e0bharach \u2013 Canan Nan GaidhealMogwai \u2013 George Square Thatcher Death PartyOi Polloi \u2013 Union Jack? Thall's Cac!Martyn Bennett \u2013 Aye?The Proclaimers \u2013 Letter from AmericaDick Gaughan \u2013 Freedom Come All YeRunrig \u2013 Loch Lomond (Live version)\u2022 Listen to these songs on a YouTube playlist.\u2022 See all the readers' recommendations on last week's blog, from which DarceysDad selected the songs above.\u2022 Here's a Spotify playlist containing readers' recommendations on this theme.Reading on a mobile? Listen on Spotify", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs about Scotland \u2013 results"},{"date": "2012-11-22T17:42:30Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "For once, it didn't seem to bother the Barcelona supporters when Real Madrid cruised into a 1-0 lead at the Nou Camp. The Barcelona faithful seemed distracted. Then, when the stadium clock registered the 17th minute of the game, a tremor of anticipation swept through the crowd and 14 seconds later 95,000 Catalans rose to their feet and began chanting \"in-inde-independencia\". For several minutes, the greatest sporting contest in Europe became a political rally. Seventeen minutes and 14 seconds: 1714, the year when Catalan forces were defeated by Philip V of Spain after the 14-month Siege of Barcelona was ended on 11 September.For Alex Salmond, such moments of communal nationalism must stir a mixture of admiration and deep frustration. What would Scotland's first minister give to have a popular rallying point for nationalism? Two weeks ago Celtic FC, the Scottish champions, became the first team this season to defeat Barcelona in a Champions League encounter. While it was possible to pick out a few saltires on that occasion, the main hues were green, white and orange \u2013 the colours of the Irish flag.Angus Robertson, the SNP's leader in Westminster, is a little wistful: \"The backgrounds to the cause of nationalism in Scotland and Catalonia are significantly different, especially given the Catalans' recent experience of living under a fascist dictatorship in Spain. In Scotland we are embedded in a national debate about a better future with independence. We are not protesting. So, I am wary of drawing comparisons between the debates in each country when most of the circumstances are actually very different.\"As the movement for Catalan nationhood has whipped up a storm, the campaign for Scottish independence has lost some wind from its sails. Polls refuse to rise much above 30%. Yet while the SNP realises it will not yet mobilise 1.5\u00a0million people to march down the Royal Mile in favour of Scottish independence \u2013 as happened in Barcelona on 11 September \u2013 it also knows the Catalans would love the kind of constitutional relationship that exists between Scotland and the rest of the UK. It was this that brought forth the Edinburgh agreement on an independence referendum \u2013 something unthinkable even just a couple of years ago. But, as Robertson also observed: \"We've still got two years to persuade the Scottish people.\"Xavier Solano is a leading nationalist politician and former head of the Catalan government's Westminster office. He sees the similarities between Scotland and Catalonia but also warns against exaggerating them. \"Both countries are old European nations with a distinctive culture and history and both have always shown a clear wish for self-government. Both pro-independence movements are founded on the belief that, with independence, their citizens will be better off. Each also desires to co-operate with their former rulers if independence is achieved.\"The Scottish and the UK governments, by signing the Edinburgh agreement, have demonstrated that things can be done in a democratic and civilised way. Spain and the entire world should learn from this.\"But he also points out the deep emotional differences between the two movements. \"You must also remember,\" he said, \"the United Kingdom is one of the world's oldest and most mature democracies. It has respected the national identities of each of its four constituent parts. Spain, on the other hand, has economically punished Catalonia and kept it hidden from the world since 1714. It is time for the world to discover an old nation of Europe that wants to decide its own future.\"Solano is espousing the Catalan sense of genuine emotional, historical and political grievance. The perfidies of Albion may be many in the eyes of Scottish nationalists but they do not begin to compare to what Catalans feel about Madrid. Sandwiched between two wars in which Scottish and English soldiers fought and died together was a horrifying civil conflict in Spain that led to Franco's 40-year dictatorship and the subjugation of Catalonia. Scotland, unlike Catalonia under Franco, has never been culturally enslaved.David Low is a Glaswegian of Irish stock who has had property and business interests in Barcelona for 10 years. He has witnessed a change in Catalan identity in that period. \"There has been a new level of self-identity among Catalans and that has bred renewed confidence. This is bolstered by the relative wealth in the region. However, I don't think Catalan independence is guaranteed as there are a significant number of non-Catalans with a vote living in the region. They have migrated there for jobs over the generations. Once you factor in the business lobby and the royalists then it's clear that there is still some work to do.\"He says there is a depth of emotion built on a sense of pain and loss that Scottish nationalism can't match. \"The Catalan language is compulsory in all state schools and is a symbol of independence helped by Franco's banning of it and the flag. Franco also treated FC Barcelona appallingly. Its president was murdered by nationalist forces during the civil war and Real Madrid's greatest player, Di St\u00e9fano, was stolen from Barcelona in 1953 under orders from Franco.\"In Barcelona's Pla\u00e7a Reial a few weeks ago, the euphoria of the 11 September march of the multitudes was still palpable and a group of Scots in town for the Champions League game were talking self-determination with the bar staff. \"We want to be independent like Scotland,\" said the host, who obviously believes a country is independent if it has an international football team. Perhaps, in 2014, when Scotland plays England at Wembley, the Tartan Army will rise as one and chant \"freedom\" in the 14th second of the 13th minute (the year of the Battle of Bannockburn).", "tags": ["Catalonia", "Scottish independence", "World news", "Scotland", "UK news", "Politics", "Spain"], "title": "Lessons that Catalonia can learn from Scotland"},{"date": "2013-02-11T00:01:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It is about time that British politics got real about the referendum. Not the hypothetical referendum on the European Union that may or not take place in five years, depending on the outcome of the 2015 general election. Instead, the real referendum that should be concentrating political minds throughout Britain is the one that will definitely take place next year, irrespective of any election, to settle whether Scotland remains part of the United Kingdom or breaks away from it.Bit by bit the arguments and terrain for the 2014 referendum vote are taking sharper shape. Two weeks ago, the Electoral Commission's proposals for the question to be put to Scots were agreed. Last week, the Scottish government produced an unimpressive plan for the transition \u2013 if there is one \u2013 between a vote for independence next year and the break from Britain planned for 2016. At the weekend, David Cameron made a relatively rare foray into the Scottish debate with a statement opposing independence. On Monday, the UK government is publishing legal advice about the international law aspects of what the nationalist government plans to do. Meanwhile the SNP is counterattacking with the launch of its own report on economic options. Next month, the exact date of the autumn 2014 referendum will be announced.Though there is lots going on, it is all taking place in a difficult political climate for Alex Salmond's Scottish government and the SNP. The SNP's electoral triumph in Scotland in 2011 has proved to be a double-edged claymore. On the one hand SNP success gave the independence cause the greatest opportunity of its lifetime, that of putting Scotland's national future to the vote. On the other, it compelled the SNP to fight a set-piece political battle about the single issue of independence, which the opinion polls consistently show is not supported by most Scots. Over the past year, the SNP has struggled to translate its dominance of Scottish party politics into an equivalent momentum on the independence issue. By and large, the polls on Scotland's future have not shifted. In spite of all Mr Salmond's efforts, he looks at the moment to be leading his clans to defeat.This could change, particularly if Scots begin to feel that Labour is faltering and Mr Cameron is heading for a second term in 2015. The important point to grasp, however, is that everything that happens in UK politics at the moment has some potential to shape the dynamics of the independence battle in Scotland. Party leaders need to factor this into their actions and statements more than they do. The EU is an example. Mr Cameron promises an in-out referendum in 2017-18. But what if Scots, who like the EU, become fearful that Little England voters will sweep them out of Europe against their will? That's certainly what the SNP will try to claim. It is doubtful whether Mr Cameron has thought about this. He and all other UK party leaders need to be much more attentive to the Scottish dimension. That will remain the case, whatever\u00a0the\u00a0result in autumn 2014.At the moment, Mr Salmond is playing defence, not attack, over Europe. Last year he was badly damaged by appearing shifty over whether an independent Scotland could seamlessly acquire membership of the EU and other international bodies, as the SNP claimed it could. The legal advice published by the UK government is emphatic that Scotland could not, that it would have to negotiate that status afresh, while the rest of the UK inherited the existing membership. If that advice is sound, it is another big setback for Mr Salmond's already faltering cause.The outcome in 2014 is not a done deal. It would be extremely foolish to assume that the result is beyond doubt. Right now, the momentum is with the opponents of independence, while the SNP struggles to fire a mood that independence is both desirable and irresistible. But there is a long way to go and every day is a skirmish in the larger contest. Monday's events emphatically confirm that. And there are many more such days to come.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: Britain's real referendum | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-02-11T00:01:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It is about time that British politics got real about the referendum. Not the hypothetical referendum on the European Union that may or not take place in five years, depending on the outcome of the 2015 general election. Instead, the real referendum that should be concentrating political minds throughout Britain is the one that will definitely take place next year, irrespective of any election, to settle whether Scotland remains part of the United Kingdom or breaks away from it.Bit by bit the arguments and terrain for the 2014 referendum vote are taking sharper shape. Two weeks ago, the Electoral Commission's proposals for the question to be put to Scots were agreed. Last week, the Scottish government produced an unimpressive plan for the transition \u2013 if there is one \u2013 between a vote for independence next year and the break from Britain planned for 2016. At the weekend, David Cameron made a relatively rare foray into the Scottish debate with a statement opposing independence. On Monday, the UK government is publishing legal advice about the international law aspects of what the nationalist government plans to do. Meanwhile the SNP is counterattacking with the launch of its own report on economic options. Next month, the exact date of the autumn 2014 referendum will be announced.Though there is lots going on, it is all taking place in a difficult political climate for Alex Salmond's Scottish government and the SNP. The SNP's electoral triumph in Scotland in 2011 has proved to be a double-edged claymore. On the one hand SNP success gave the independence cause the greatest opportunity of its lifetime, that of putting Scotland's national future to the vote. On the other, it compelled the SNP to fight a set-piece political battle about the single issue of independence, which the opinion polls consistently show is not supported by most Scots. Over the past year, the SNP has struggled to translate its dominance of Scottish party politics into an equivalent momentum on the independence issue. By and large, the polls on Scotland's future have not shifted. In spite of all Mr Salmond's efforts, he looks at the moment to be leading his clans to defeat.This could change, particularly if Scots begin to feel that Labour is faltering and Mr Cameron is heading for a second term in 2015. The important point to grasp, however, is that everything that happens in UK politics at the moment has some potential to shape the dynamics of the independence battle in Scotland. Party leaders need to factor this into their actions and statements more than they do. The EU is an example. Mr Cameron promises an in-out referendum in 2017-18. But what if Scots, who like the EU, become fearful that Little England voters will sweep them out of Europe against their will? That's certainly what the SNP will try to claim. It is doubtful whether Mr Cameron has thought about this. He and all other UK party leaders need to be much more attentive to the Scottish dimension. That will remain the case, whatever\u00a0the\u00a0result in autumn 2014.At the moment, Mr Salmond is playing defence, not attack, over Europe. Last year he was badly damaged by appearing shifty over whether an independent Scotland could seamlessly acquire membership of the EU and other international bodies, as the SNP claimed it could. The legal advice published by the UK government is emphatic that Scotland could not, that it would have to negotiate that status afresh, while the rest of the UK inherited the existing membership. If that advice is sound, it is another big setback for Mr Salmond's already faltering cause.The outcome in 2014 is not a done deal. It would be extremely foolish to assume that the result is beyond doubt. Right now, the momentum is with the opponents of independence, while the SNP struggles to fire a mood that independence is both desirable and irresistible. But there is a long way to go and every day is a skirmish in the larger contest. Monday's events emphatically confirm that. And there are many more such days to come.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: Britain's real referendum | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-03-22T16:51:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's progressive legislation promised to abolish homelessness by equalising rights for a permanent home for all homeless people. The ambitious 10-year programme deadline passed at the end of 2012 with councils now compelled to remove the distinction between 'priority' and 'non-priority' homeless households.With a shortage of social homes to house homeless families, local authorities are under pressure to improve their preventative work to cope with the new rules. Yet by improving links with other partners from the voluntary, social care and health sectors, as well as providers in the private rented sector, they have already cut the number of homelessness applications in Scotland by 20% in 2011-12, and a further 13% in 2012-13.However, fears have been raised over local authorities discouraging people in housing need from making a formal homeless application. There is a gap between a local authority acknowledging it has a duty to help \u2013 which under new regulations, it must \u2013 and actually being able to provide a permanent home for a homeless person. Even the most innovative preventative work cannot overcome a shortage of social housing.So is Scotland's ambitious homelessness policy achieving its aims? What impact is the removal of the non-priority status having on homeless people and local authorities? How are councils coping with the changes? And what lessons can be learned by countries that have not made homelessness a political priority?Join our expert panel from midday on Monday 18 March to take part in the discussion.PanelMarion Gibbs is team leader of the homelessness team in the Scottish Government. During this time the 2012 homelessness target has been met and local authorities have adopted the housing options approach in Scotland which has led to a renewed focus on the prevention of homelessnessProfessor Isobel Anderson is chair in housing studies at the University of Stirling, where she leads research on governance, welfare and social inequality. She has researched and published on housing policy, homelessness, and interprofessional working to meet housing and welfare needsFiona King is policy officer at Shelter Scotland based in Edinburgh. Her work focuses on homelessness legislation, housing options and homelessness prevention including eviction policy and tenancy sustainmentRobert Aldridge is chief executive of Homeless Action Scotland, formerly Scottish Council for Single Homeless, the membership organisation for organisations and individuals tackling homelessness in ScotlandClare Mailer is homelessness service manager at Perth and Kinross council. Her team is responsible for all aspects of homelessness, housing options and a range of private sector initiatives. Clare also chairs the Tayside, Fife and central housing options hubKatey Tabner is research fellow at the Rock Trust, who assist young people affected by homelessness across Edinburgh and the Lothians. Katey is responsible for the Beyond Homelessness project researching the impact of support networks for those affected by homelessnessThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network for more comment and analysis and best practice", "tags": ["Housing Network", "Homelessness", "Policy", "Practice", "Housing", "Communities", "Society", "Homelessness", "Social exclusion"], "title": "Live discussion: homelessness in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-02-11T00:01:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It is about time that British politics got real about the referendum. Not the hypothetical referendum on the European Union that may or not take place in five years, depending on the outcome of the 2015 general election. Instead, the real referendum that should be concentrating political minds throughout Britain is the one that will definitely take place next year, irrespective of any election, to settle whether Scotland remains part of the United Kingdom or breaks away from it.Bit by bit the arguments and terrain for the 2014 referendum vote are taking sharper shape. Two weeks ago, the Electoral Commission's proposals for the question to be put to Scots were agreed. Last week, the Scottish government produced an unimpressive plan for the transition \u2013 if there is one \u2013 between a vote for independence next year and the break from Britain planned for 2016. At the weekend, David Cameron made a relatively rare foray into the Scottish debate with a statement opposing independence. On Monday, the UK government is publishing legal advice about the international law aspects of what the nationalist government plans to do. Meanwhile the SNP is counterattacking with the launch of its own report on economic options. Next month, the exact date of the autumn 2014 referendum will be announced.Though there is lots going on, it is all taking place in a difficult political climate for Alex Salmond's Scottish government and the SNP. The SNP's electoral triumph in Scotland in 2011 has proved to be a double-edged claymore. On the one hand SNP success gave the independence cause the greatest opportunity of its lifetime, that of putting Scotland's national future to the vote. On the other, it compelled the SNP to fight a set-piece political battle about the single issue of independence, which the opinion polls consistently show is not supported by most Scots. Over the past year, the SNP has struggled to translate its dominance of Scottish party politics into an equivalent momentum on the independence issue. By and large, the polls on Scotland's future have not shifted. In spite of all Mr Salmond's efforts, he looks at the moment to be leading his clans to defeat.This could change, particularly if Scots begin to feel that Labour is faltering and Mr Cameron is heading for a second term in 2015. The important point to grasp, however, is that everything that happens in UK politics at the moment has some potential to shape the dynamics of the independence battle in Scotland. Party leaders need to factor this into their actions and statements more than they do. The EU is an example. Mr Cameron promises an in-out referendum in 2017-18. But what if Scots, who like the EU, become fearful that Little England voters will sweep them out of Europe against their will? That's certainly what the SNP will try to claim. It is doubtful whether Mr Cameron has thought about this. He and all other UK party leaders need to be much more attentive to the Scottish dimension. That will remain the case, whatever\u00a0the\u00a0result in autumn 2014.At the moment, Mr Salmond is playing defence, not attack, over Europe. Last year he was badly damaged by appearing shifty over whether an independent Scotland could seamlessly acquire membership of the EU and other international bodies, as the SNP claimed it could. The legal advice published by the UK government is emphatic that Scotland could not, that it would have to negotiate that status afresh, while the rest of the UK inherited the existing membership. If that advice is sound, it is another big setback for Mr Salmond's already faltering cause.The outcome in 2014 is not a done deal. It would be extremely foolish to assume that the result is beyond doubt. Right now, the momentum is with the opponents of independence, while the SNP struggles to fire a mood that independence is both desirable and irresistible. But there is a long way to go and every day is a skirmish in the larger contest. Monday's events emphatically confirm that. And there are many more such days to come.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: Britain's real referendum | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-03-22T16:51:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's progressive legislation promised to abolish homelessness by equalising rights for a permanent home for all homeless people. The ambitious 10-year programme deadline passed at the end of 2012 with councils now compelled to remove the distinction between 'priority' and 'non-priority' homeless households.With a shortage of social homes to house homeless families, local authorities are under pressure to improve their preventative work to cope with the new rules. Yet by improving links with other partners from the voluntary, social care and health sectors, as well as providers in the private rented sector, they have already cut the number of homelessness applications in Scotland by 20% in 2011-12, and a further 13% in 2012-13.However, fears have been raised over local authorities discouraging people in housing need from making a formal homeless application. There is a gap between a local authority acknowledging it has a duty to help \u2013 which under new regulations, it must \u2013 and actually being able to provide a permanent home for a homeless person. Even the most innovative preventative work cannot overcome a shortage of social housing.So is Scotland's ambitious homelessness policy achieving its aims? What impact is the removal of the non-priority status having on homeless people and local authorities? How are councils coping with the changes? And what lessons can be learned by countries that have not made homelessness a political priority?Join our expert panel from midday on Monday 18 March to take part in the discussion.PanelMarion Gibbs is team leader of the homelessness team in the Scottish Government. During this time the 2012 homelessness target has been met and local authorities have adopted the housing options approach in Scotland which has led to a renewed focus on the prevention of homelessnessProfessor Isobel Anderson is chair in housing studies at the University of Stirling, where she leads research on governance, welfare and social inequality. She has researched and published on housing policy, homelessness, and interprofessional working to meet housing and welfare needsFiona King is policy officer at Shelter Scotland based in Edinburgh. Her work focuses on homelessness legislation, housing options and homelessness prevention including eviction policy and tenancy sustainmentRobert Aldridge is chief executive of Homeless Action Scotland, formerly Scottish Council for Single Homeless, the membership organisation for organisations and individuals tackling homelessness in ScotlandClare Mailer is homelessness service manager at Perth and Kinross council. Her team is responsible for all aspects of homelessness, housing options and a range of private sector initiatives. Clare also chairs the Tayside, Fife and central housing options hubKatey Tabner is research fellow at the Rock Trust, who assist young people affected by homelessness across Edinburgh and the Lothians. Katey is responsible for the Beyond Homelessness project researching the impact of support networks for those affected by homelessnessThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network for more comment and analysis and best practice", "tags": ["Housing Network", "Homelessness", "Policy", "Practice", "Housing", "Communities", "Society", "Homelessness", "Social exclusion"], "title": "Live discussion: homelessness in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-02-23T19:42:25Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It is not hard to get all protective and infantile when you observe dimly your first giant panda through a glass partition. \"Look, his wee pond is all iced over. Won't it hurt his wee paws when he goes for a drink?\" I ask the keeper at Edinburgh Zoo. \"No, they prefer cold temperatures and they enjoy smashing the ice with their paws,\" she replies.I grew up in an era when Johnny Morris was king of animal television and so I have a habit of personalising the behaviour of animals, as Johnny used to do, when I watch wildlife programmes. Often I ascribe Glaswegian vernacular to them. Thus, lions and tigers are always \"big\" and they say things to each other like: \"Ahm starvin', big man, let's go and jump a few of those antelopes for wur lunch.\"At the panda enclosure last week I was at it again. Yang Guang, the male of the pair currently engaging the gawping hordes, was sitting underneath his tree chomping on bamboo shoots. Unlike other wild beasts, he is happy to hold eye contact. I fancy he is challenging us. \"Have you got a problem, pal?\" You can also see why people are enchanted by them. The big black patches on their face make them childlike. And when Tian Tian (Sweetie) is seated and eating, she seems very human in her movements.Yes, Edinburgh's two giant pandas have swung to the rescue of headline writers again. Yang Guang and Tian Tian's keepers have begun to observe behaviour that suggests that they may be about to mate.Tian Tian has been calling out to Yang Guang (Sunshine) in the compound next door. Sunshine has been doing handstands and marking his territory in all sorts of ways. \"Ah'm up for the Cup,\" he'd be telling his pals. It's the perfect feelgood story for the spring.The female is in season for a mere two days and the show may be all over inside a minute. The keepers will expect to know when the time is right by a series of signals that will include Tian Tian's temperature readings. The male is prone to be more aggressive at this stage and the keepers are acutely aware that Yang Guang can be inadvertently harmed while mating.Scotland has been treated to mini treatises on how male giant pandas set about \"marking their territory\". On the Scotsman's front page, underneath a picture of Yang Guang's trapeze routine, the caption read: \"Tian Tian has started calling out to Yang Guang, who has been peering into her cage.\" Surely there's a typo in there?Staff members at the zoo are cautiously optimistic that mating could take place as early as next week. Under the terms of the agreement with the Beijing government which underpins the 10-year panda project, though, any baby panda must be sent to China after two years. After that it will participate in China's breeding programme in the wild and never see Scotland again. In effect, Scotland has rented the pandas for this period, which started on their arrival 14 months ago. The annual fee is around \u00a3700,000 plus food and sundries. Home for each of the pandas in Edinburgh Zoo is an enclosure the size of a small kitchen showroom. It's a split-level number with a cave, a pond, and some shrubbery on a grass and rock terrain. Quite how the pandas will feel after 10 years of prowling this same patch is open to suggestion. The zoo insists it has a robust \"enrichment\" programme in which they are trained to do exercises and are made to \"hunt\" for food, which, although they are carnivores, consists almost solely of bamboo.It's clear that all those engaged in the welfare of the pandas work hard to ensure their wellbeing. But that is if you can believe any beast can be comfortable pacing up and down the same artificial strip of piece of turf for 10 years.The zoo is sensitive about any criticism of the beasts' mental welfare. \"While we cannot replace their habitat in the wild, we can ensure the animals in our collections have everything they need to lead a safe, healthy and fulfilling life. It's very easy to forward our own emotions onto animals and become anthropomorphic in our views towards them. This is unfair to the animals as they do not think that way.\"How do they know? Is there not a case for simply letting these extraordinary-looking creatures take their chances with nature's indiscriminate pruning fork? No species has a sacrosanct right to everlasting life and surely it would be better to die out while living free rather than appear in this endless circus. Iain Valentine, director of conservation and research at the zoo, has heard it all before. \"Pandas have existed on earth for between four million and eight million years,\" he said. \"Their problems only started when we arrived and began to make our presence felt. We have a moral duty to conserve them and to educate people about their habitat, health and the threats they face.\"John Robins, of Animal Concern, is a persistent critic of the panda project which he describes as a \"tawdry, geo-political carve-up\". Whatever else the agreement may be about the pandas' mental and physical welfare is not the primary objective, he says. \"China has turned its panda reserves into vulgar theme parks where people stage marriage ceremonies and the rich buy holiday homes. I'd much rather see the \u00a31m or so spent in lobbying the Chinese government to develop proper national parks where the pandas can roam free. We shouldn't be breeding them for this questionable purpose.\"In the viewing room another group of 50 or so visitors are willing Tian Tian to do something that will make their entrance fee worthwhile. The children are outnumbered by the adults, one of whom thinks it's a good idea to use flash photography as he aims his camera at the beast. How long though, will this national novelty last; of pressing your nose up against a window and watching a largely inert animal eat and sleep again and again and again?If a new baby panda appears later this year in Edinburgh, it will be a great time for Scotland's first minister, Alex Salmond, to bury bad news. For this will be a historically unique event of seismic proportions: the world's first Scottish panda. But will it come out for an independent Scotland? And can we please call it something normal like Colin or Tracey, rather than Twinkle or anything else too cutesy?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Animals", "Edinburgh", "Animal welfare", "China", "UK news", "World news", "Giant pandas"], "title": "Pandas keep Scotland guessing over mating game"},{"date": "2013-02-11T00:01:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It is about time that British politics got real about the referendum. Not the hypothetical referendum on the European Union that may or not take place in five years, depending on the outcome of the 2015 general election. Instead, the real referendum that should be concentrating political minds throughout Britain is the one that will definitely take place next year, irrespective of any election, to settle whether Scotland remains part of the United Kingdom or breaks away from it.Bit by bit the arguments and terrain for the 2014 referendum vote are taking sharper shape. Two weeks ago, the Electoral Commission's proposals for the question to be put to Scots were agreed. Last week, the Scottish government produced an unimpressive plan for the transition \u2013 if there is one \u2013 between a vote for independence next year and the break from Britain planned for 2016. At the weekend, David Cameron made a relatively rare foray into the Scottish debate with a statement opposing independence. On Monday, the UK government is publishing legal advice about the international law aspects of what the nationalist government plans to do. Meanwhile the SNP is counterattacking with the launch of its own report on economic options. Next month, the exact date of the autumn 2014 referendum will be announced.Though there is lots going on, it is all taking place in a difficult political climate for Alex Salmond's Scottish government and the SNP. The SNP's electoral triumph in Scotland in 2011 has proved to be a double-edged claymore. On the one hand SNP success gave the independence cause the greatest opportunity of its lifetime, that of putting Scotland's national future to the vote. On the other, it compelled the SNP to fight a set-piece political battle about the single issue of independence, which the opinion polls consistently show is not supported by most Scots. Over the past year, the SNP has struggled to translate its dominance of Scottish party politics into an equivalent momentum on the independence issue. By and large, the polls on Scotland's future have not shifted. In spite of all Mr Salmond's efforts, he looks at the moment to be leading his clans to defeat.This could change, particularly if Scots begin to feel that Labour is faltering and Mr Cameron is heading for a second term in 2015. The important point to grasp, however, is that everything that happens in UK politics at the moment has some potential to shape the dynamics of the independence battle in Scotland. Party leaders need to factor this into their actions and statements more than they do. The EU is an example. Mr Cameron promises an in-out referendum in 2017-18. But what if Scots, who like the EU, become fearful that Little England voters will sweep them out of Europe against their will? That's certainly what the SNP will try to claim. It is doubtful whether Mr Cameron has thought about this. He and all other UK party leaders need to be much more attentive to the Scottish dimension. That will remain the case, whatever\u00a0the\u00a0result in autumn 2014.At the moment, Mr Salmond is playing defence, not attack, over Europe. Last year he was badly damaged by appearing shifty over whether an independent Scotland could seamlessly acquire membership of the EU and other international bodies, as the SNP claimed it could. The legal advice published by the UK government is emphatic that Scotland could not, that it would have to negotiate that status afresh, while the rest of the UK inherited the existing membership. If that advice is sound, it is another big setback for Mr Salmond's already faltering cause.The outcome in 2014 is not a done deal. It would be extremely foolish to assume that the result is beyond doubt. Right now, the momentum is with the opponents of independence, while the SNP struggles to fire a mood that independence is both desirable and irresistible. But there is a long way to go and every day is a skirmish in the larger contest. Monday's events emphatically confirm that. And there are many more such days to come.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scotland", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: Britain's real referendum | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-03-22T16:51:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's progressive legislation promised to abolish homelessness by equalising rights for a permanent home for all homeless people. The ambitious 10-year programme deadline passed at the end of 2012 with councils now compelled to remove the distinction between 'priority' and 'non-priority' homeless households.With a shortage of social homes to house homeless families, local authorities are under pressure to improve their preventative work to cope with the new rules. Yet by improving links with other partners from the voluntary, social care and health sectors, as well as providers in the private rented sector, they have already cut the number of homelessness applications in Scotland by 20% in 2011-12, and a further 13% in 2012-13.However, fears have been raised over local authorities discouraging people in housing need from making a formal homeless application. There is a gap between a local authority acknowledging it has a duty to help \u2013 which under new regulations, it must \u2013 and actually being able to provide a permanent home for a homeless person. Even the most innovative preventative work cannot overcome a shortage of social housing.So is Scotland's ambitious homelessness policy achieving its aims? What impact is the removal of the non-priority status having on homeless people and local authorities? How are councils coping with the changes? And what lessons can be learned by countries that have not made homelessness a political priority?Join our expert panel from midday on Monday 18 March to take part in the discussion.PanelMarion Gibbs is team leader of the homelessness team in the Scottish Government. During this time the 2012 homelessness target has been met and local authorities have adopted the housing options approach in Scotland which has led to a renewed focus on the prevention of homelessnessProfessor Isobel Anderson is chair in housing studies at the University of Stirling, where she leads research on governance, welfare and social inequality. She has researched and published on housing policy, homelessness, and interprofessional working to meet housing and welfare needsFiona King is policy officer at Shelter Scotland based in Edinburgh. Her work focuses on homelessness legislation, housing options and homelessness prevention including eviction policy and tenancy sustainmentRobert Aldridge is chief executive of Homeless Action Scotland, formerly Scottish Council for Single Homeless, the membership organisation for organisations and individuals tackling homelessness in ScotlandClare Mailer is homelessness service manager at Perth and Kinross council. Her team is responsible for all aspects of homelessness, housing options and a range of private sector initiatives. Clare also chairs the Tayside, Fife and central housing options hubKatey Tabner is research fellow at the Rock Trust, who assist young people affected by homelessness across Edinburgh and the Lothians. Katey is responsible for the Beyond Homelessness project researching the impact of support networks for those affected by homelessnessThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network for more comment and analysis and best practice", "tags": ["Housing Network", "Homelessness", "Policy", "Practice", "Housing", "Communities", "Society", "Homelessness", "Social exclusion"], "title": "Live discussion: homelessness in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-02-23T19:42:25Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It is not hard to get all protective and infantile when you observe dimly your first giant panda through a glass partition. \"Look, his wee pond is all iced over. Won't it hurt his wee paws when he goes for a drink?\" I ask the keeper at Edinburgh Zoo. \"No, they prefer cold temperatures and they enjoy smashing the ice with their paws,\" she replies.I grew up in an era when Johnny Morris was king of animal television and so I have a habit of personalising the behaviour of animals, as Johnny used to do, when I watch wildlife programmes. Often I ascribe Glaswegian vernacular to them. Thus, lions and tigers are always \"big\" and they say things to each other like: \"Ahm starvin', big man, let's go and jump a few of those antelopes for wur lunch.\"At the panda enclosure last week I was at it again. Yang Guang, the male of the pair currently engaging the gawping hordes, was sitting underneath his tree chomping on bamboo shoots. Unlike other wild beasts, he is happy to hold eye contact. I fancy he is challenging us. \"Have you got a problem, pal?\" You can also see why people are enchanted by them. The big black patches on their face make them childlike. And when Tian Tian (Sweetie) is seated and eating, she seems very human in her movements.Yes, Edinburgh's two giant pandas have swung to the rescue of headline writers again. Yang Guang and Tian Tian's keepers have begun to observe behaviour that suggests that they may be about to mate.Tian Tian has been calling out to Yang Guang (Sunshine) in the compound next door. Sunshine has been doing handstands and marking his territory in all sorts of ways. \"Ah'm up for the Cup,\" he'd be telling his pals. It's the perfect feelgood story for the spring.The female is in season for a mere two days and the show may be all over inside a minute. The keepers will expect to know when the time is right by a series of signals that will include Tian Tian's temperature readings. The male is prone to be more aggressive at this stage and the keepers are acutely aware that Yang Guang can be inadvertently harmed while mating.Scotland has been treated to mini treatises on how male giant pandas set about \"marking their territory\". On the Scotsman's front page, underneath a picture of Yang Guang's trapeze routine, the caption read: \"Tian Tian has started calling out to Yang Guang, who has been peering into her cage.\" Surely there's a typo in there?Staff members at the zoo are cautiously optimistic that mating could take place as early as next week. Under the terms of the agreement with the Beijing government which underpins the 10-year panda project, though, any baby panda must be sent to China after two years. After that it will participate in China's breeding programme in the wild and never see Scotland again. In effect, Scotland has rented the pandas for this period, which started on their arrival 14 months ago. The annual fee is around \u00a3700,000 plus food and sundries. Home for each of the pandas in Edinburgh Zoo is an enclosure the size of a small kitchen showroom. It's a split-level number with a cave, a pond, and some shrubbery on a grass and rock terrain. Quite how the pandas will feel after 10 years of prowling this same patch is open to suggestion. The zoo insists it has a robust \"enrichment\" programme in which they are trained to do exercises and are made to \"hunt\" for food, which, although they are carnivores, consists almost solely of bamboo.It's clear that all those engaged in the welfare of the pandas work hard to ensure their wellbeing. But that is if you can believe any beast can be comfortable pacing up and down the same artificial strip of piece of turf for 10 years.The zoo is sensitive about any criticism of the beasts' mental welfare. \"While we cannot replace their habitat in the wild, we can ensure the animals in our collections have everything they need to lead a safe, healthy and fulfilling life. It's very easy to forward our own emotions onto animals and become anthropomorphic in our views towards them. This is unfair to the animals as they do not think that way.\"How do they know? Is there not a case for simply letting these extraordinary-looking creatures take their chances with nature's indiscriminate pruning fork? No species has a sacrosanct right to everlasting life and surely it would be better to die out while living free rather than appear in this endless circus. Iain Valentine, director of conservation and research at the zoo, has heard it all before. \"Pandas have existed on earth for between four million and eight million years,\" he said. \"Their problems only started when we arrived and began to make our presence felt. We have a moral duty to conserve them and to educate people about their habitat, health and the threats they face.\"John Robins, of Animal Concern, is a persistent critic of the panda project which he describes as a \"tawdry, geo-political carve-up\". Whatever else the agreement may be about the pandas' mental and physical welfare is not the primary objective, he says. \"China has turned its panda reserves into vulgar theme parks where people stage marriage ceremonies and the rich buy holiday homes. I'd much rather see the \u00a31m or so spent in lobbying the Chinese government to develop proper national parks where the pandas can roam free. We shouldn't be breeding them for this questionable purpose.\"In the viewing room another group of 50 or so visitors are willing Tian Tian to do something that will make their entrance fee worthwhile. The children are outnumbered by the adults, one of whom thinks it's a good idea to use flash photography as he aims his camera at the beast. How long though, will this national novelty last; of pressing your nose up against a window and watching a largely inert animal eat and sleep again and again and again?If a new baby panda appears later this year in Edinburgh, it will be a great time for Scotland's first minister, Alex Salmond, to bury bad news. For this will be a historically unique event of seismic proportions: the world's first Scottish panda. But will it come out for an independent Scotland? And can we please call it something normal like Colin or Tracey, rather than Twinkle or anything else too cutesy?", "tags": ["Scotland", "Animals", "Edinburgh", "Animal welfare", "China", "UK news", "World news", "Giant pandas"], "title": "Pandas keep Scotland guessing over mating game"},{"date": "2013-01-28T19:22:56Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Alex Salmond's government has been warned an independent Scotland would need to spend billions of pounds setting up its own intelligence agencies and equipping its network of overseas embassies.David Lidington, a Foreign Office minister, told MPs on Monday that an independent Scotland would face \"enormous\" costs to build sophisticated new spying and security facilities, and train its agents, before it could persuade MI6 and the CIA to begin co-operating on joint intelligence.Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's deputy first minister, had earlier told the foreign affairs committee that officials were completing a \"substantial piece on work\" on a new independent intelligence service to be published in November's Scottish government white paper before the next year's independence referendum.She said she was unable to offer any details until that work was complete, but given that the overall UK budget on MI5, MI6 and the spying centre GCHQ was about \u00a32bn, Scottish spending would be around \u00a3200m a year, based on its share of population.Sturgeon anticipated that an independent Scotland would want to guard against cyberterrorism, international terrorism, international organised crime and global instability producing rogue states.Scottish ministers point too at protecting Scotland's oil rigs, collaboration on north Atlantic defence with Scandinavian states, and full membership of Nato but without accepting nuclear weapons on Scottish soil.In addition to the police and armed forces, \"Scotland would have an independent domestic intelligence machinery working very closely, sharing intelligence with the rest of the UK,\" Sturgeon said.\"We're working through these matters because there are different options that Scotland could take,\" she added later. \"I don't think any of them are beyond the ability of Scotland to implement.\"Sturgeon came under repeated pressure from the Tory MP for Penrith and the Border, Rory Stewart, a former army officer and Foreign Office diplomat, to explain how an independent Scotland would build, equip, train and fund its own spying and security services.Stewart said the UK's current annual spying and security budget did not include the total historic costs of building and equipping its intelligence services, from setting up secure intelligence units in overseas embassies, training its agents, to building and equipping GCHQ.It would cost billions, he said, to set up the secure communications Scotland needed for its intelligence agencies. For instance, if an independent Scotland wanted to have the same number of embassies overseas as Ireland, which has 97, or Finland, which has 93, it would cost hundreds of millions to equip them.Lidington told the committee, which staged a rare evidence session in Edinburgh as part of its inquiry into the foreign policy implications of independence, that Scotland would also need to prove its internal security was tight enough to protect its allies intelligence.\"If Scotland were to become an independent state, it would have to consider how she's going to substitute for the UK's arrangements,\" he said. \"The costs of doing so would be enormous, I think, particularly to start up such networks from scratch.\"In general terms, smaller European countries don't have the security, intelligence apparatus of anything like the scale and professionalism that we do in the UK.\"Asked about Sturgeon's position that Scotland would want to share intelligence with the rest of the UK, and the US and other allies, Lidington said Scotland would face very tough tests to prove its security systems were tight and capable enough to satisfy its partners.He added later: \"It would require all members of that community to be satisfied both that it was to their over all advantage in terms of intelligence gathering and sharing; would Scotland want to be part of that arrangement and most importantly for them, to have confidence in the ability of an independent Scotland's safeguarding of that information.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish independence", "MI5", "UK news", "MI6", "Defence policy", "Politics", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland facing 'enormous' costs for independent security"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-13T19:19:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Despite George Osborne's claims that Stephen Hester's departure from RBS was part of an orderly transition \u2013 made by \"mutual agreement\" and all the usual platitudes \u2013 it was clearly anything but. However golden his goodbye, the chief exec plainly did not want to go; in a set-piece interview a few days ago, he declared his desire to complete the \"mission\" of turning around a crisis-hit bank. As if to underline that his surprise resignation owed more to heavy pushing than a happy jump, Mr Hester confessed to \"some human regrets\" at not seeing RBS through to privatisation. Fat chance of that happening: the bank is aiming at some kind of sale by the end of 2014; Mr Hester will probably be out by this Christmas.His exit triggered an immediate run on RBS shares yesterday, as well as raising three discrete but linked questions, each of them vital to the health of the British economy: about the health of RBS, which remains one of the largest banking groups in the world; about the coalition's policy towards its state-owned banks; and about just how much the City will change after the crash.Since accepting Alistair Darling's plea in autumn 2008 to run RBS, Mr Hester has done a good job within narrow parameters. The share price may still be depressed, especially compared with that other large nationalised bank, Lloyds, where shares are now worth more than before the government bought them. But in just over four years, the chief executive took an institution that under Fred Goodwin grew too fast and too dangerously, defused \"the biggest balance-sheet timebomb in corporate history\" and removed over \u00a3700bn in toxic assets. Problems still arise regularly, such as last year's IT failure, or the revelation of entanglement in the fixing of inter-bank rates. Even so, Mr Hester has got about two-thirds through one hell of a business recovery job. No wonder the air is so full of speculation about which lucrative City perch he will land on next.But there is a world of difference between managing a recovering bank, and managing a recovering bank that is 81% owned by taxpayers \u2013 who are themselves enduring a slump triggered in part by the collapse of their bank. Mr Hester and his chair, Sir Philip Hampton, have sometimes behaved as if the crash never happened. Just this February, they told MPs that the CEO's basic pay of \u00a31.2m a year was \"modest\" by market standards. Which it is \u2013 if you want to compare the bank to businesses not on state life-support. Yet the bankers aren't alone in their detachment from reality; so, too, are their political masters. This was certainly true of the Labour ministers who decided to own the banks without exercising commensurate control. Instead of using his stakes in the banks to force them to strategically important industries and regions, Mr Darling parked his assets in a hands-off Whitehall investor and maintained the illusion of shareholder normality. This gave conflicting signals to Mr Hester and his colleagues, both at RBS and Lloyds.Still, it is better than how the coalition is running pell-mell towards pre-election privatisation. This week, one Conservative thinktank released a report sketching out how Mr Osborne could sell RBS and Lloyds. At his Mansion House speech next week, the chancellor might lay out plans to auction off Lloyds; this will doubtless be the purest coincidence. The most immediate risk is that taxpayers will fail to recoup the billions they've ploughed into the banking sector, and for the sake of the chancellor showering a little cheer around in the form of cut-price shares.But the bigger risk is that, after a historic crash, very little will have changed in banking. What should have led to an industry overhauled, with the big banks broken up and being mandated to lend strategically (rather than merely blow noughties-style bubbles), will give way to a rebuilding of the same old financialised, debt-addicted economy we had in 2007. It is against that backdrop that Mr Hester should be regarded: as an able financial technocrat at a time when what Britain really needed was a Roosevelt.", "tags": ["Stephen Hester", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: Hester la vista | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-13T19:19:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Despite George Osborne's claims that Stephen Hester's departure from RBS was part of an orderly transition \u2013 made by \"mutual agreement\" and all the usual platitudes \u2013 it was clearly anything but. However golden his goodbye, the chief exec plainly did not want to go; in a set-piece interview a few days ago, he declared his desire to complete the \"mission\" of turning around a crisis-hit bank. As if to underline that his surprise resignation owed more to heavy pushing than a happy jump, Mr Hester confessed to \"some human regrets\" at not seeing RBS through to privatisation. Fat chance of that happening: the bank is aiming at some kind of sale by the end of 2014; Mr Hester will probably be out by this Christmas.His exit triggered an immediate run on RBS shares yesterday, as well as raising three discrete but linked questions, each of them vital to the health of the British economy: about the health of RBS, which remains one of the largest banking groups in the world; about the coalition's policy towards its state-owned banks; and about just how much the City will change after the crash.Since accepting Alistair Darling's plea in autumn 2008 to run RBS, Mr Hester has done a good job within narrow parameters. The share price may still be depressed, especially compared with that other large nationalised bank, Lloyds, where shares are now worth more than before the government bought them. But in just over four years, the chief executive took an institution that under Fred Goodwin grew too fast and too dangerously, defused \"the biggest balance-sheet timebomb in corporate history\" and removed over \u00a3700bn in toxic assets. Problems still arise regularly, such as last year's IT failure, or the revelation of entanglement in the fixing of inter-bank rates. Even so, Mr Hester has got about two-thirds through one hell of a business recovery job. No wonder the air is so full of speculation about which lucrative City perch he will land on next.But there is a world of difference between managing a recovering bank, and managing a recovering bank that is 81% owned by taxpayers \u2013 who are themselves enduring a slump triggered in part by the collapse of their bank. Mr Hester and his chair, Sir Philip Hampton, have sometimes behaved as if the crash never happened. Just this February, they told MPs that the CEO's basic pay of \u00a31.2m a year was \"modest\" by market standards. Which it is \u2013 if you want to compare the bank to businesses not on state life-support. Yet the bankers aren't alone in their detachment from reality; so, too, are their political masters. This was certainly true of the Labour ministers who decided to own the banks without exercising commensurate control. Instead of using his stakes in the banks to force them to strategically important industries and regions, Mr Darling parked his assets in a hands-off Whitehall investor and maintained the illusion of shareholder normality. This gave conflicting signals to Mr Hester and his colleagues, both at RBS and Lloyds.Still, it is better than how the coalition is running pell-mell towards pre-election privatisation. This week, one Conservative thinktank released a report sketching out how Mr Osborne could sell RBS and Lloyds. At his Mansion House speech next week, the chancellor might lay out plans to auction off Lloyds; this will doubtless be the purest coincidence. The most immediate risk is that taxpayers will fail to recoup the billions they've ploughed into the banking sector, and for the sake of the chancellor showering a little cheer around in the form of cut-price shares.But the bigger risk is that, after a historic crash, very little will have changed in banking. What should have led to an industry overhauled, with the big banks broken up and being mandated to lend strategically (rather than merely blow noughties-style bubbles), will give way to a rebuilding of the same old financialised, debt-addicted economy we had in 2007. It is against that backdrop that Mr Hester should be regarded: as an able financial technocrat at a time when what Britain really needed was a Roosevelt.", "tags": ["Stephen Hester", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: Hester la vista | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T22:07:39Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As with David Cameron's recent trip to Scotland to put the case for a Trident missile that has always been especially divisive there, the readiness of the chancellor to tread on to the unfamiliar political terrain of Scottish independence is a sign of confidence \u2013 confidence that the strength of the unionist cause will carry the day in spite of the unpopularity of the coalition in London. It is surely healthier that Westminster's principal players are getting involved \u2013 what would it say about the state of the union if they felt unable to? \u2013 and Mr Osborne raised one of many important questions about how independence would work, questions inevitably neglected until the fixing of the referendum date focused minds. The Treasury's document leaned too a little heavily on the scaremongering side.The tactical temptation to highlight the parallel between a post-independence \"sterling union\" and the creaking eurozone is obvious enough: there's always mileage in fear. Like every other unionist on both sides of the border, Mr Osborne's immediate concern is winning next year's vote. But it just won't wash to imply that renewing the vows of an long-established monetary marriage is equivalent to the wedding of disparate economies. If independence arrived, what's left of the UK would have to negotiate around this new brute fact, as well as taking account of the reality that London would be powerless to stop a go-it-alone Scotland unilaterally retaining sterling \u2013 considerations which would encourage a more flexible stance than Mr Osborne was prepared to concede yesterday.The deeper weakness revealed by the chancellor's tactics is a lack of strategic engagement with what happens after the referendum outcome he hopes for. Sadly, the failure to provide an alternative vision of a union that is sustainable into the future is a weakness shared with too many politicians from all of the anti-nationalist parties. Scottish Labour and its Tory and Lib Dem counterparts have all been thinking about fresh potential devolutionary steps in some depth, but until they can generate more interest from their English colleagues, they will struggle to produce a blueprint that makes sense for the UK as a whole, or creates the impression of permanence. Scottish Labour recently made a principled case for retaining benefits as UK-wide obligations. But the party that once boasted that devolution would kill nationalism \"stone dead\" now views devolution as an ongoing journey, \"a journey towards true home rule\".The danger for unionism is that the nationalist tide is met with a run of unplanned concessions, without any real thought about where they are headed. Even if independence gets the thumbs down, legislation already passed will see further fiscal powers passed to Scotland in 2016; and the big three Westminster parties are considering plans that would transfer yet more power. If unionists on both sides of the border hope for something more than a pyrrhic victory in the referendum, it is time for them to start thinking about a constitution that could endure \u2013 and to explain where their journey will end.What with the Scottish Labour commission, this Treasury report and the SNP's hurried response, this may go down as the week when some of the nitty-gritty of the independence debate finally got an airing. About time too. The hope of the Better Together campaign is that the more the independence argument is subjected to detailed interrogation, the wobblier it will look. But the SNP's case and appeal increasingly rely on the sense that Scotland is hobbled by a Westminster that defines the national economic interest as by what happens in the City. Mr Osborne and his counterparts had better have something concrete to offer on this front. For their part, the Scottish Nationalists must do more to explain the wellsprings of growth for an independent polity. Green tech and IT? Or a low-tax, light-regulation entrepot for international businesses and footloose finance? That debate is one urgently needed not just in Scotland, but across the union.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Trident", "George Osborne", "David Cameron"], "title": "Scotland: the nitty-gritty of an ideal | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-13T19:19:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Despite George Osborne's claims that Stephen Hester's departure from RBS was part of an orderly transition \u2013 made by \"mutual agreement\" and all the usual platitudes \u2013 it was clearly anything but. However golden his goodbye, the chief exec plainly did not want to go; in a set-piece interview a few days ago, he declared his desire to complete the \"mission\" of turning around a crisis-hit bank. As if to underline that his surprise resignation owed more to heavy pushing than a happy jump, Mr Hester confessed to \"some human regrets\" at not seeing RBS through to privatisation. Fat chance of that happening: the bank is aiming at some kind of sale by the end of 2014; Mr Hester will probably be out by this Christmas.His exit triggered an immediate run on RBS shares yesterday, as well as raising three discrete but linked questions, each of them vital to the health of the British economy: about the health of RBS, which remains one of the largest banking groups in the world; about the coalition's policy towards its state-owned banks; and about just how much the City will change after the crash.Since accepting Alistair Darling's plea in autumn 2008 to run RBS, Mr Hester has done a good job within narrow parameters. The share price may still be depressed, especially compared with that other large nationalised bank, Lloyds, where shares are now worth more than before the government bought them. But in just over four years, the chief executive took an institution that under Fred Goodwin grew too fast and too dangerously, defused \"the biggest balance-sheet timebomb in corporate history\" and removed over \u00a3700bn in toxic assets. Problems still arise regularly, such as last year's IT failure, or the revelation of entanglement in the fixing of inter-bank rates. Even so, Mr Hester has got about two-thirds through one hell of a business recovery job. No wonder the air is so full of speculation about which lucrative City perch he will land on next.But there is a world of difference between managing a recovering bank, and managing a recovering bank that is 81% owned by taxpayers \u2013 who are themselves enduring a slump triggered in part by the collapse of their bank. Mr Hester and his chair, Sir Philip Hampton, have sometimes behaved as if the crash never happened. Just this February, they told MPs that the CEO's basic pay of \u00a31.2m a year was \"modest\" by market standards. Which it is \u2013 if you want to compare the bank to businesses not on state life-support. Yet the bankers aren't alone in their detachment from reality; so, too, are their political masters. This was certainly true of the Labour ministers who decided to own the banks without exercising commensurate control. Instead of using his stakes in the banks to force them to strategically important industries and regions, Mr Darling parked his assets in a hands-off Whitehall investor and maintained the illusion of shareholder normality. This gave conflicting signals to Mr Hester and his colleagues, both at RBS and Lloyds.Still, it is better than how the coalition is running pell-mell towards pre-election privatisation. This week, one Conservative thinktank released a report sketching out how Mr Osborne could sell RBS and Lloyds. At his Mansion House speech next week, the chancellor might lay out plans to auction off Lloyds; this will doubtless be the purest coincidence. The most immediate risk is that taxpayers will fail to recoup the billions they've ploughed into the banking sector, and for the sake of the chancellor showering a little cheer around in the form of cut-price shares.But the bigger risk is that, after a historic crash, very little will have changed in banking. What should have led to an industry overhauled, with the big banks broken up and being mandated to lend strategically (rather than merely blow noughties-style bubbles), will give way to a rebuilding of the same old financialised, debt-addicted economy we had in 2007. It is against that backdrop that Mr Hester should be regarded: as an able financial technocrat at a time when what Britain really needed was a Roosevelt.", "tags": ["Stephen Hester", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: Hester la vista | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T22:07:39Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As with David Cameron's recent trip to Scotland to put the case for a Trident missile that has always been especially divisive there, the readiness of the chancellor to tread on to the unfamiliar political terrain of Scottish independence is a sign of confidence \u2013 confidence that the strength of the unionist cause will carry the day in spite of the unpopularity of the coalition in London. It is surely healthier that Westminster's principal players are getting involved \u2013 what would it say about the state of the union if they felt unable to? \u2013 and Mr Osborne raised one of many important questions about how independence would work, questions inevitably neglected until the fixing of the referendum date focused minds. The Treasury's document leaned too a little heavily on the scaremongering side.The tactical temptation to highlight the parallel between a post-independence \"sterling union\" and the creaking eurozone is obvious enough: there's always mileage in fear. Like every other unionist on both sides of the border, Mr Osborne's immediate concern is winning next year's vote. But it just won't wash to imply that renewing the vows of an long-established monetary marriage is equivalent to the wedding of disparate economies. If independence arrived, what's left of the UK would have to negotiate around this new brute fact, as well as taking account of the reality that London would be powerless to stop a go-it-alone Scotland unilaterally retaining sterling \u2013 considerations which would encourage a more flexible stance than Mr Osborne was prepared to concede yesterday.The deeper weakness revealed by the chancellor's tactics is a lack of strategic engagement with what happens after the referendum outcome he hopes for. Sadly, the failure to provide an alternative vision of a union that is sustainable into the future is a weakness shared with too many politicians from all of the anti-nationalist parties. Scottish Labour and its Tory and Lib Dem counterparts have all been thinking about fresh potential devolutionary steps in some depth, but until they can generate more interest from their English colleagues, they will struggle to produce a blueprint that makes sense for the UK as a whole, or creates the impression of permanence. Scottish Labour recently made a principled case for retaining benefits as UK-wide obligations. But the party that once boasted that devolution would kill nationalism \"stone dead\" now views devolution as an ongoing journey, \"a journey towards true home rule\".The danger for unionism is that the nationalist tide is met with a run of unplanned concessions, without any real thought about where they are headed. Even if independence gets the thumbs down, legislation already passed will see further fiscal powers passed to Scotland in 2016; and the big three Westminster parties are considering plans that would transfer yet more power. If unionists on both sides of the border hope for something more than a pyrrhic victory in the referendum, it is time for them to start thinking about a constitution that could endure \u2013 and to explain where their journey will end.What with the Scottish Labour commission, this Treasury report and the SNP's hurried response, this may go down as the week when some of the nitty-gritty of the independence debate finally got an airing. About time too. The hope of the Better Together campaign is that the more the independence argument is subjected to detailed interrogation, the wobblier it will look. But the SNP's case and appeal increasingly rely on the sense that Scotland is hobbled by a Westminster that defines the national economic interest as by what happens in the City. Mr Osborne and his counterparts had better have something concrete to offer on this front. For their part, the Scottish Nationalists must do more to explain the wellsprings of growth for an independent polity. Green tech and IT? Or a low-tax, light-regulation entrepot for international businesses and footloose finance? That debate is one urgently needed not just in Scotland, but across the union.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Trident", "George Osborne", "David Cameron"], "title": "Scotland: the nitty-gritty of an ideal | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T12:47:53Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, has accused George Osborne of using \"shock tactics and scaremongering\" to defeat the rational case for a currency pact between an independent Scotland and the UK.Swinney said the chancellor's warnings that the UK was unlikely to agree to set up a sterling zone with an independent Scotland would damage the wider British economy, rather than help it.He was reacting to stark warnings from Osborne on Tuesday morning in Glasgow, where he unveiled a detailed Treasury critique of Alex Salmond's proposals for Scotland to create a sterling area currency union, with the Bank of England as Scotland's central bank and its bank of last resort.The Treasury argues there were a series of economic, political and technical problems with a small foreign country \u2013 Scotland \u2013 joining in a currency union with a much larger neighbour. That unstable relationship could hurt the UK's economy and weaken sterling overall, it said.Swinney said forcing Scotland to use its own currency or join the euro by blocking a sterling zone would erect unnecessary trade barriers that would damage UK businesses that trade heavily with Scottish customers.It would undermine the UK's heavily integrated single market, Swinney told BBC Radio Scotland, in which Scotland's oil wealth contributed \u00a340bn to the UK's balance of payments in 2011 and where Scottish cross-border trade is worth \u00a345bn a year.\"The chancellor's argument fundamentally comes from a very arrogant point of view which suggests somehow [that] the pound is just the property of the rest of the UK. The pound, the Bank of England, is as much in the ownership of Scotland as it's in the ownership of any other part of the UK,\" he added.There was a compelling case for a currency agreement between both countries, he said. After a yes vote in next year's referendum, arriving at a joint agreement to preserve sterling across the UK would be the most rational decision.That position had been set out by the Scottish government's independent fiscal commission, which includes the Nobel laureate Joseph Steiglitz and is chaired by the businessman and former Scottish Enterprise chief executive, Crawford Beveridge.\"The chancellor is making great play in all of this about the importance of a single market and we accept that point of view, and that's why we're trying to put in place arrangements that will enable companies to operate in a single market environment, but would enable us in Scotland to establish the type of economic conditions that are appropriate for Scotland,\" the finance secretary said.\"What the chancellor has done today is set out the pre-referendum stance, the shock tactics and scaremongering that goes on daily.\"After the referendum, in the face of a compelling yes vote from the people of Scotland, the Bank of England, the UK government will adopt a fundamentally different attitude because they will need to put in place workable arrangements and we have provided them with those.\"Patrick Harvie, the Scottish Green leader, whose party supports Scottish independence, said both sides were engaged in a \"phoney war\".He said Scotland should keep an open mind about creating its own currency, with a sterling deal just a short-term measure.\"In the event of a yes vote both sides would need to recognise the mandate given by the people, and settle down to the real negotiations,\" Harvie said.\"Scotland's hand in those negotiations would be strengthened if we did the groundwork on our own currency so we keep it as a realistic medium-term option.\"Osborne's economic credibility is in tatters and now he's attempting to wage a phoney war by suggesting we're doomed unless we stick with the existing arrangements \u2013 arrangements which fail to reflect our needs and aspirations.\"If Scotland votes for full control of our own affairs it is reasonable to expect our economic priorities to diverge from the rest of the UK, so we would be wise to keep our currency options open.\"But Alistair Darling, the former Labour chancellor and chair of the pro-UK Better Together campaign, said the Treasury was correct to raise the difficulties and complexities of reaching that agreement \u2013 in part because Scotland's options of leaving the sterling pact would undermine its credibility.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Economic policy", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "George Osborne", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business"], "title": "Scotland currency row: Osborne accused of 'scaremongering'"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-13T19:19:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Despite George Osborne's claims that Stephen Hester's departure from RBS was part of an orderly transition \u2013 made by \"mutual agreement\" and all the usual platitudes \u2013 it was clearly anything but. However golden his goodbye, the chief exec plainly did not want to go; in a set-piece interview a few days ago, he declared his desire to complete the \"mission\" of turning around a crisis-hit bank. As if to underline that his surprise resignation owed more to heavy pushing than a happy jump, Mr Hester confessed to \"some human regrets\" at not seeing RBS through to privatisation. Fat chance of that happening: the bank is aiming at some kind of sale by the end of 2014; Mr Hester will probably be out by this Christmas.His exit triggered an immediate run on RBS shares yesterday, as well as raising three discrete but linked questions, each of them vital to the health of the British economy: about the health of RBS, which remains one of the largest banking groups in the world; about the coalition's policy towards its state-owned banks; and about just how much the City will change after the crash.Since accepting Alistair Darling's plea in autumn 2008 to run RBS, Mr Hester has done a good job within narrow parameters. The share price may still be depressed, especially compared with that other large nationalised bank, Lloyds, where shares are now worth more than before the government bought them. But in just over four years, the chief executive took an institution that under Fred Goodwin grew too fast and too dangerously, defused \"the biggest balance-sheet timebomb in corporate history\" and removed over \u00a3700bn in toxic assets. Problems still arise regularly, such as last year's IT failure, or the revelation of entanglement in the fixing of inter-bank rates. Even so, Mr Hester has got about two-thirds through one hell of a business recovery job. No wonder the air is so full of speculation about which lucrative City perch he will land on next.But there is a world of difference between managing a recovering bank, and managing a recovering bank that is 81% owned by taxpayers \u2013 who are themselves enduring a slump triggered in part by the collapse of their bank. Mr Hester and his chair, Sir Philip Hampton, have sometimes behaved as if the crash never happened. Just this February, they told MPs that the CEO's basic pay of \u00a31.2m a year was \"modest\" by market standards. Which it is \u2013 if you want to compare the bank to businesses not on state life-support. Yet the bankers aren't alone in their detachment from reality; so, too, are their political masters. This was certainly true of the Labour ministers who decided to own the banks without exercising commensurate control. Instead of using his stakes in the banks to force them to strategically important industries and regions, Mr Darling parked his assets in a hands-off Whitehall investor and maintained the illusion of shareholder normality. This gave conflicting signals to Mr Hester and his colleagues, both at RBS and Lloyds.Still, it is better than how the coalition is running pell-mell towards pre-election privatisation. This week, one Conservative thinktank released a report sketching out how Mr Osborne could sell RBS and Lloyds. At his Mansion House speech next week, the chancellor might lay out plans to auction off Lloyds; this will doubtless be the purest coincidence. The most immediate risk is that taxpayers will fail to recoup the billions they've ploughed into the banking sector, and for the sake of the chancellor showering a little cheer around in the form of cut-price shares.But the bigger risk is that, after a historic crash, very little will have changed in banking. What should have led to an industry overhauled, with the big banks broken up and being mandated to lend strategically (rather than merely blow noughties-style bubbles), will give way to a rebuilding of the same old financialised, debt-addicted economy we had in 2007. It is against that backdrop that Mr Hester should be regarded: as an able financial technocrat at a time when what Britain really needed was a Roosevelt.", "tags": ["Stephen Hester", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: Hester la vista | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T22:07:39Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As with David Cameron's recent trip to Scotland to put the case for a Trident missile that has always been especially divisive there, the readiness of the chancellor to tread on to the unfamiliar political terrain of Scottish independence is a sign of confidence \u2013 confidence that the strength of the unionist cause will carry the day in spite of the unpopularity of the coalition in London. It is surely healthier that Westminster's principal players are getting involved \u2013 what would it say about the state of the union if they felt unable to? \u2013 and Mr Osborne raised one of many important questions about how independence would work, questions inevitably neglected until the fixing of the referendum date focused minds. The Treasury's document leaned too a little heavily on the scaremongering side.The tactical temptation to highlight the parallel between a post-independence \"sterling union\" and the creaking eurozone is obvious enough: there's always mileage in fear. Like every other unionist on both sides of the border, Mr Osborne's immediate concern is winning next year's vote. But it just won't wash to imply that renewing the vows of an long-established monetary marriage is equivalent to the wedding of disparate economies. If independence arrived, what's left of the UK would have to negotiate around this new brute fact, as well as taking account of the reality that London would be powerless to stop a go-it-alone Scotland unilaterally retaining sterling \u2013 considerations which would encourage a more flexible stance than Mr Osborne was prepared to concede yesterday.The deeper weakness revealed by the chancellor's tactics is a lack of strategic engagement with what happens after the referendum outcome he hopes for. Sadly, the failure to provide an alternative vision of a union that is sustainable into the future is a weakness shared with too many politicians from all of the anti-nationalist parties. Scottish Labour and its Tory and Lib Dem counterparts have all been thinking about fresh potential devolutionary steps in some depth, but until they can generate more interest from their English colleagues, they will struggle to produce a blueprint that makes sense for the UK as a whole, or creates the impression of permanence. Scottish Labour recently made a principled case for retaining benefits as UK-wide obligations. But the party that once boasted that devolution would kill nationalism \"stone dead\" now views devolution as an ongoing journey, \"a journey towards true home rule\".The danger for unionism is that the nationalist tide is met with a run of unplanned concessions, without any real thought about where they are headed. Even if independence gets the thumbs down, legislation already passed will see further fiscal powers passed to Scotland in 2016; and the big three Westminster parties are considering plans that would transfer yet more power. If unionists on both sides of the border hope for something more than a pyrrhic victory in the referendum, it is time for them to start thinking about a constitution that could endure \u2013 and to explain where their journey will end.What with the Scottish Labour commission, this Treasury report and the SNP's hurried response, this may go down as the week when some of the nitty-gritty of the independence debate finally got an airing. About time too. The hope of the Better Together campaign is that the more the independence argument is subjected to detailed interrogation, the wobblier it will look. But the SNP's case and appeal increasingly rely on the sense that Scotland is hobbled by a Westminster that defines the national economic interest as by what happens in the City. Mr Osborne and his counterparts had better have something concrete to offer on this front. For their part, the Scottish Nationalists must do more to explain the wellsprings of growth for an independent polity. Green tech and IT? Or a low-tax, light-regulation entrepot for international businesses and footloose finance? That debate is one urgently needed not just in Scotland, but across the union.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Trident", "George Osborne", "David Cameron"], "title": "Scotland: the nitty-gritty of an ideal | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T12:47:53Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, has accused George Osborne of using \"shock tactics and scaremongering\" to defeat the rational case for a currency pact between an independent Scotland and the UK.Swinney said the chancellor's warnings that the UK was unlikely to agree to set up a sterling zone with an independent Scotland would damage the wider British economy, rather than help it.He was reacting to stark warnings from Osborne on Tuesday morning in Glasgow, where he unveiled a detailed Treasury critique of Alex Salmond's proposals for Scotland to create a sterling area currency union, with the Bank of England as Scotland's central bank and its bank of last resort.The Treasury argues there were a series of economic, political and technical problems with a small foreign country \u2013 Scotland \u2013 joining in a currency union with a much larger neighbour. That unstable relationship could hurt the UK's economy and weaken sterling overall, it said.Swinney said forcing Scotland to use its own currency or join the euro by blocking a sterling zone would erect unnecessary trade barriers that would damage UK businesses that trade heavily with Scottish customers.It would undermine the UK's heavily integrated single market, Swinney told BBC Radio Scotland, in which Scotland's oil wealth contributed \u00a340bn to the UK's balance of payments in 2011 and where Scottish cross-border trade is worth \u00a345bn a year.\"The chancellor's argument fundamentally comes from a very arrogant point of view which suggests somehow [that] the pound is just the property of the rest of the UK. The pound, the Bank of England, is as much in the ownership of Scotland as it's in the ownership of any other part of the UK,\" he added.There was a compelling case for a currency agreement between both countries, he said. After a yes vote in next year's referendum, arriving at a joint agreement to preserve sterling across the UK would be the most rational decision.That position had been set out by the Scottish government's independent fiscal commission, which includes the Nobel laureate Joseph Steiglitz and is chaired by the businessman and former Scottish Enterprise chief executive, Crawford Beveridge.\"The chancellor is making great play in all of this about the importance of a single market and we accept that point of view, and that's why we're trying to put in place arrangements that will enable companies to operate in a single market environment, but would enable us in Scotland to establish the type of economic conditions that are appropriate for Scotland,\" the finance secretary said.\"What the chancellor has done today is set out the pre-referendum stance, the shock tactics and scaremongering that goes on daily.\"After the referendum, in the face of a compelling yes vote from the people of Scotland, the Bank of England, the UK government will adopt a fundamentally different attitude because they will need to put in place workable arrangements and we have provided them with those.\"Patrick Harvie, the Scottish Green leader, whose party supports Scottish independence, said both sides were engaged in a \"phoney war\".He said Scotland should keep an open mind about creating its own currency, with a sterling deal just a short-term measure.\"In the event of a yes vote both sides would need to recognise the mandate given by the people, and settle down to the real negotiations,\" Harvie said.\"Scotland's hand in those negotiations would be strengthened if we did the groundwork on our own currency so we keep it as a realistic medium-term option.\"Osborne's economic credibility is in tatters and now he's attempting to wage a phoney war by suggesting we're doomed unless we stick with the existing arrangements \u2013 arrangements which fail to reflect our needs and aspirations.\"If Scotland votes for full control of our own affairs it is reasonable to expect our economic priorities to diverge from the rest of the UK, so we would be wise to keep our currency options open.\"But Alistair Darling, the former Labour chancellor and chair of the pro-UK Better Together campaign, said the Treasury was correct to raise the difficulties and complexities of reaching that agreement \u2013 in part because Scotland's options of leaving the sterling pact would undermine its credibility.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Economic policy", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "George Osborne", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business"], "title": "Scotland currency row: Osborne accused of 'scaremongering'"},{"date": "2013-04-21T22:52:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Ed Miliband made a confident speech to the Scottish Labour party conference at the weekend. Yet it contained nothing about the kind of relationship between Scotland and the rest of the UK that he would like to see if Scotland rejects independence in 2014 and he becomes prime minister in 2015. Tactically, that omission may be understandable. The proposals that Labour put forward only last week do not command united support in the party's ranks. Insofar as Mr Miliband wants to discuss the referendum, he naturally wants to focus on the question that will be on the ballot paper \u2013 independence, yes or no \u2013 not on the devolution settlement that a Labour government, if there is one, might promote after a no vote, if there is one.Yet the omission was a pity, all the same. The Scottish Labour devolution commission report is an important contribution to the constitutional debate. This would be true of any document that the largest of the anti-independence parties in Scotland produced on the subject, of course. But last week's document highlights some big questions that have been relatively neglected in the debate over Scotland's future. Labour deserves credit for putting them back on the agenda. They deserve thoughtful debate on both sides of the border. And if that means rows, such as the one this weekend over Holyrood's tax-setting powers, so be it.The most important of these questions is whether welfare spending should be devolved to the Scottish parliament, which it is not at present. Much of the debate about third way alternatives to independence and the status quo has focused too quickly on the devo-max alternative, which to many of its supporters means full fiscal devolution to Scotland while remaining within the UK. Fair enough, if that is what Scots want. But the trouble with devo-max is that it is little more than de facto independence without the de jure separation. It leaves the UK dimension of Scottish life largely confined to defence and foreign policy, plus cheering on Team GB at the Olympics.The case for not devolving welfare spending is that pensions, benefits and the welfare state provide a material form of solidarity between the people of these islands. It means that the union is not just about identity and defence but about accepting a shared responsibility for the old and needy from Worthing to Wick. Crudely, it also means that Scots can benefit materially from the wealth of London and south-east England. If Scots prefer to devolve welfare behind Scottish borders, they are entitled to do so. But if UK solidarity \u2013 and the rhetoric of one nation \u2013 is to mean something for every person in every corner of a devolved UK, much is to be said for caution over cutting one of the strongest ties that bind.", "tags": ["Labour", "Scottish independence", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland"], "title": "Labour and Scotland: a tie that binds | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-13T19:19:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Despite George Osborne's claims that Stephen Hester's departure from RBS was part of an orderly transition \u2013 made by \"mutual agreement\" and all the usual platitudes \u2013 it was clearly anything but. However golden his goodbye, the chief exec plainly did not want to go; in a set-piece interview a few days ago, he declared his desire to complete the \"mission\" of turning around a crisis-hit bank. As if to underline that his surprise resignation owed more to heavy pushing than a happy jump, Mr Hester confessed to \"some human regrets\" at not seeing RBS through to privatisation. Fat chance of that happening: the bank is aiming at some kind of sale by the end of 2014; Mr Hester will probably be out by this Christmas.His exit triggered an immediate run on RBS shares yesterday, as well as raising three discrete but linked questions, each of them vital to the health of the British economy: about the health of RBS, which remains one of the largest banking groups in the world; about the coalition's policy towards its state-owned banks; and about just how much the City will change after the crash.Since accepting Alistair Darling's plea in autumn 2008 to run RBS, Mr Hester has done a good job within narrow parameters. The share price may still be depressed, especially compared with that other large nationalised bank, Lloyds, where shares are now worth more than before the government bought them. But in just over four years, the chief executive took an institution that under Fred Goodwin grew too fast and too dangerously, defused \"the biggest balance-sheet timebomb in corporate history\" and removed over \u00a3700bn in toxic assets. Problems still arise regularly, such as last year's IT failure, or the revelation of entanglement in the fixing of inter-bank rates. Even so, Mr Hester has got about two-thirds through one hell of a business recovery job. No wonder the air is so full of speculation about which lucrative City perch he will land on next.But there is a world of difference between managing a recovering bank, and managing a recovering bank that is 81% owned by taxpayers \u2013 who are themselves enduring a slump triggered in part by the collapse of their bank. Mr Hester and his chair, Sir Philip Hampton, have sometimes behaved as if the crash never happened. Just this February, they told MPs that the CEO's basic pay of \u00a31.2m a year was \"modest\" by market standards. Which it is \u2013 if you want to compare the bank to businesses not on state life-support. Yet the bankers aren't alone in their detachment from reality; so, too, are their political masters. This was certainly true of the Labour ministers who decided to own the banks without exercising commensurate control. Instead of using his stakes in the banks to force them to strategically important industries and regions, Mr Darling parked his assets in a hands-off Whitehall investor and maintained the illusion of shareholder normality. This gave conflicting signals to Mr Hester and his colleagues, both at RBS and Lloyds.Still, it is better than how the coalition is running pell-mell towards pre-election privatisation. This week, one Conservative thinktank released a report sketching out how Mr Osborne could sell RBS and Lloyds. At his Mansion House speech next week, the chancellor might lay out plans to auction off Lloyds; this will doubtless be the purest coincidence. The most immediate risk is that taxpayers will fail to recoup the billions they've ploughed into the banking sector, and for the sake of the chancellor showering a little cheer around in the form of cut-price shares.But the bigger risk is that, after a historic crash, very little will have changed in banking. What should have led to an industry overhauled, with the big banks broken up and being mandated to lend strategically (rather than merely blow noughties-style bubbles), will give way to a rebuilding of the same old financialised, debt-addicted economy we had in 2007. It is against that backdrop that Mr Hester should be regarded: as an able financial technocrat at a time when what Britain really needed was a Roosevelt.", "tags": ["Stephen Hester", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: Hester la vista | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T22:07:39Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As with David Cameron's recent trip to Scotland to put the case for a Trident missile that has always been especially divisive there, the readiness of the chancellor to tread on to the unfamiliar political terrain of Scottish independence is a sign of confidence \u2013 confidence that the strength of the unionist cause will carry the day in spite of the unpopularity of the coalition in London. It is surely healthier that Westminster's principal players are getting involved \u2013 what would it say about the state of the union if they felt unable to? \u2013 and Mr Osborne raised one of many important questions about how independence would work, questions inevitably neglected until the fixing of the referendum date focused minds. The Treasury's document leaned too a little heavily on the scaremongering side.The tactical temptation to highlight the parallel between a post-independence \"sterling union\" and the creaking eurozone is obvious enough: there's always mileage in fear. Like every other unionist on both sides of the border, Mr Osborne's immediate concern is winning next year's vote. But it just won't wash to imply that renewing the vows of an long-established monetary marriage is equivalent to the wedding of disparate economies. If independence arrived, what's left of the UK would have to negotiate around this new brute fact, as well as taking account of the reality that London would be powerless to stop a go-it-alone Scotland unilaterally retaining sterling \u2013 considerations which would encourage a more flexible stance than Mr Osborne was prepared to concede yesterday.The deeper weakness revealed by the chancellor's tactics is a lack of strategic engagement with what happens after the referendum outcome he hopes for. Sadly, the failure to provide an alternative vision of a union that is sustainable into the future is a weakness shared with too many politicians from all of the anti-nationalist parties. Scottish Labour and its Tory and Lib Dem counterparts have all been thinking about fresh potential devolutionary steps in some depth, but until they can generate more interest from their English colleagues, they will struggle to produce a blueprint that makes sense for the UK as a whole, or creates the impression of permanence. Scottish Labour recently made a principled case for retaining benefits as UK-wide obligations. But the party that once boasted that devolution would kill nationalism \"stone dead\" now views devolution as an ongoing journey, \"a journey towards true home rule\".The danger for unionism is that the nationalist tide is met with a run of unplanned concessions, without any real thought about where they are headed. Even if independence gets the thumbs down, legislation already passed will see further fiscal powers passed to Scotland in 2016; and the big three Westminster parties are considering plans that would transfer yet more power. If unionists on both sides of the border hope for something more than a pyrrhic victory in the referendum, it is time for them to start thinking about a constitution that could endure \u2013 and to explain where their journey will end.What with the Scottish Labour commission, this Treasury report and the SNP's hurried response, this may go down as the week when some of the nitty-gritty of the independence debate finally got an airing. About time too. The hope of the Better Together campaign is that the more the independence argument is subjected to detailed interrogation, the wobblier it will look. But the SNP's case and appeal increasingly rely on the sense that Scotland is hobbled by a Westminster that defines the national economic interest as by what happens in the City. Mr Osborne and his counterparts had better have something concrete to offer on this front. For their part, the Scottish Nationalists must do more to explain the wellsprings of growth for an independent polity. Green tech and IT? Or a low-tax, light-regulation entrepot for international businesses and footloose finance? That debate is one urgently needed not just in Scotland, but across the union.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Trident", "George Osborne", "David Cameron"], "title": "Scotland: the nitty-gritty of an ideal | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T12:47:53Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, has accused George Osborne of using \"shock tactics and scaremongering\" to defeat the rational case for a currency pact between an independent Scotland and the UK.Swinney said the chancellor's warnings that the UK was unlikely to agree to set up a sterling zone with an independent Scotland would damage the wider British economy, rather than help it.He was reacting to stark warnings from Osborne on Tuesday morning in Glasgow, where he unveiled a detailed Treasury critique of Alex Salmond's proposals for Scotland to create a sterling area currency union, with the Bank of England as Scotland's central bank and its bank of last resort.The Treasury argues there were a series of economic, political and technical problems with a small foreign country \u2013 Scotland \u2013 joining in a currency union with a much larger neighbour. That unstable relationship could hurt the UK's economy and weaken sterling overall, it said.Swinney said forcing Scotland to use its own currency or join the euro by blocking a sterling zone would erect unnecessary trade barriers that would damage UK businesses that trade heavily with Scottish customers.It would undermine the UK's heavily integrated single market, Swinney told BBC Radio Scotland, in which Scotland's oil wealth contributed \u00a340bn to the UK's balance of payments in 2011 and where Scottish cross-border trade is worth \u00a345bn a year.\"The chancellor's argument fundamentally comes from a very arrogant point of view which suggests somehow [that] the pound is just the property of the rest of the UK. The pound, the Bank of England, is as much in the ownership of Scotland as it's in the ownership of any other part of the UK,\" he added.There was a compelling case for a currency agreement between both countries, he said. After a yes vote in next year's referendum, arriving at a joint agreement to preserve sterling across the UK would be the most rational decision.That position had been set out by the Scottish government's independent fiscal commission, which includes the Nobel laureate Joseph Steiglitz and is chaired by the businessman and former Scottish Enterprise chief executive, Crawford Beveridge.\"The chancellor is making great play in all of this about the importance of a single market and we accept that point of view, and that's why we're trying to put in place arrangements that will enable companies to operate in a single market environment, but would enable us in Scotland to establish the type of economic conditions that are appropriate for Scotland,\" the finance secretary said.\"What the chancellor has done today is set out the pre-referendum stance, the shock tactics and scaremongering that goes on daily.\"After the referendum, in the face of a compelling yes vote from the people of Scotland, the Bank of England, the UK government will adopt a fundamentally different attitude because they will need to put in place workable arrangements and we have provided them with those.\"Patrick Harvie, the Scottish Green leader, whose party supports Scottish independence, said both sides were engaged in a \"phoney war\".He said Scotland should keep an open mind about creating its own currency, with a sterling deal just a short-term measure.\"In the event of a yes vote both sides would need to recognise the mandate given by the people, and settle down to the real negotiations,\" Harvie said.\"Scotland's hand in those negotiations would be strengthened if we did the groundwork on our own currency so we keep it as a realistic medium-term option.\"Osborne's economic credibility is in tatters and now he's attempting to wage a phoney war by suggesting we're doomed unless we stick with the existing arrangements \u2013 arrangements which fail to reflect our needs and aspirations.\"If Scotland votes for full control of our own affairs it is reasonable to expect our economic priorities to diverge from the rest of the UK, so we would be wise to keep our currency options open.\"But Alistair Darling, the former Labour chancellor and chair of the pro-UK Better Together campaign, said the Treasury was correct to raise the difficulties and complexities of reaching that agreement \u2013 in part because Scotland's options of leaving the sterling pact would undermine its credibility.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Economic policy", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "George Osborne", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business"], "title": "Scotland currency row: Osborne accused of 'scaremongering'"},{"date": "2013-04-21T22:52:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Ed Miliband made a confident speech to the Scottish Labour party conference at the weekend. Yet it contained nothing about the kind of relationship between Scotland and the rest of the UK that he would like to see if Scotland rejects independence in 2014 and he becomes prime minister in 2015. Tactically, that omission may be understandable. The proposals that Labour put forward only last week do not command united support in the party's ranks. Insofar as Mr Miliband wants to discuss the referendum, he naturally wants to focus on the question that will be on the ballot paper \u2013 independence, yes or no \u2013 not on the devolution settlement that a Labour government, if there is one, might promote after a no vote, if there is one.Yet the omission was a pity, all the same. The Scottish Labour devolution commission report is an important contribution to the constitutional debate. This would be true of any document that the largest of the anti-independence parties in Scotland produced on the subject, of course. But last week's document highlights some big questions that have been relatively neglected in the debate over Scotland's future. Labour deserves credit for putting them back on the agenda. They deserve thoughtful debate on both sides of the border. And if that means rows, such as the one this weekend over Holyrood's tax-setting powers, so be it.The most important of these questions is whether welfare spending should be devolved to the Scottish parliament, which it is not at present. Much of the debate about third way alternatives to independence and the status quo has focused too quickly on the devo-max alternative, which to many of its supporters means full fiscal devolution to Scotland while remaining within the UK. Fair enough, if that is what Scots want. But the trouble with devo-max is that it is little more than de facto independence without the de jure separation. It leaves the UK dimension of Scottish life largely confined to defence and foreign policy, plus cheering on Team GB at the Olympics.The case for not devolving welfare spending is that pensions, benefits and the welfare state provide a material form of solidarity between the people of these islands. It means that the union is not just about identity and defence but about accepting a shared responsibility for the old and needy from Worthing to Wick. Crudely, it also means that Scots can benefit materially from the wealth of London and south-east England. If Scots prefer to devolve welfare behind Scottish borders, they are entitled to do so. But if UK solidarity \u2013 and the rhetoric of one nation \u2013 is to mean something for every person in every corner of a devolved UK, much is to be said for caution over cutting one of the strongest ties that bind.", "tags": ["Labour", "Scottish independence", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland"], "title": "Labour and Scotland: a tie that binds | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-09T15:30:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When I started knocking on Highland doors in May 1983, two things struck me more than any other. First was the sheer depth of hostility towards the Tories in general. Second was the particular hostility towards Margaret Thatcher and her local ministerial spear-carrier, energy minister and incumbent MP of 13 years' standing, Hamish Gray. People would denounce them unequivocally, often in graphic terms. More than once the view was advanced that it was a pity the IRA had not succeeded in their ultimate objective when they bombed the Grand Hotel in Brighton. This is not the Highland way.And then, perversely, would come the throwaway, sign-off remark \u2013 to the effect of: \"At least you know where you stand with Maggie \u2013 she hates us and we hate her.\"Therein, 30 years ago, lay the great Thatcher asset \u2013 and the electorally lethal Thatcher impact in Scotland. A strong, so strong, leader. Sharp definition, hard edges, no effort at fuzzy contours (David Cameron, take note). Yet a leader that a wide cross-section of Scots had come to despise. As I spread my wings in politics, I discovered many Thatcher voters down south who were the same kind of people who loathed her in Scotland. They were puzzled by the Scots' antipathy, given the Falklands war and the strong militaristic history of the Highlands and elsewhere.Like John Major in her wake, Thatcher was convinced that she understood the Scots \u2013 yet couldn't understand why we remained so stubbornly resistant towards the notion of understanding her. But we reckoned we got Thatcher only too well and didn't like what we saw, far less what we heard.That 1983 general election contained the telltale seeds of eventual Scottish Tory self-destruction. The Tories triumphed, of course, and lost only two sitting MPs \u2013 Hamish Gray and the social-security scrounger-bashing Iain Sproat, who vacated his marginal Aberdeen seat and headed for the Scottish Borders, only to suffer defeat there at the hands of the Alliance. By 1987, anti-Tory tactical voting had taken hold. A decade later they were wiped out in terms of Scotland-based Westminster constituency representation. Scottish \u2013 and by extension UK \u2013 politics has been skewed ever since.If the Falklands war was the making of Thatcher, then the poll tax was her achilles heel \u2013 not least in Scotland. That, plus (inevitable) de-industrialisation, coupled to her perceived overbearing and patronising manner. We were not unique in such a response but she failed to appreciate that Scots are balanced, canny folk \u2013 insofar as we have a well-developed chip on each shoulder. Scotland was her mission impossible.In the current wall-to-wall media welter, I caught the current leader of the Scottish Tories, Ruth Davison MSP, being asked if Thatcher was an electoral asset for her. She pointed out that she was only 10 years old when she ceased to be prime minister. Certainly, in 1983, it did not occur to me to criticise Harold Macmillan or Alec Douglas-Home on the doorstep as a sure-fire vote turner.The fact that the Thatcher question even gets asked confirms vividly just what an upas tree she remains for Scottish Toryism.", "tags": ["Margaret Thatcher", "Scotland", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Conservatives"], "title": "Scotland was Margaret Thatcher's mission impossible | Charles Kennedy"},{"date": "2013-06-16T05:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Three or four feet down and the sandy sea floor is thickly cast with razor clams and scallop shells. Towers of rainforest-green seaweed reach up towards the surface as we drift overhead in kayaks. And the sunlight, streaming down through the sparkling clear water, has turned the mother-of-pearl tones below into pure silver. It is quite extraordinary paddling through water so still and clear that the greens and yellows of the hills around are reflected in it. Like dipping into a liquid photograph.Spotting baby seals on the rocks, we glide in close. But the adults are on to us. With soft \"pops\", seals are breaking the water all around the kayaks for a good old stare, like a gang of Labrador puppies. Gazing into their soft black eyes it's easy to see how legends of the Selkie \u2013 seals taking human form \u2013 were inspired.We have been out for hours, exploring the sheltered bays and sandy islands of Loch nan Uamh, a sea loch close to Arisaig and some 35 miles out of Fort William. My children, 14 and 10 years old, are in their own kayaks, both beginners, but closely shadowed by our expert guide and canoeist Stuart Hood. No one is bored or tired, no one has capsized. No one wants to stop.As a Scot, maybe I've a bias towards the wildness and the colours of this landscape, but the beauty of the timeless West Highland coast on such a sun-drenched day is unbeatable. And this is accessible wilderness. You no longer need to have a loyalty card with a mountaineering shop to qualify to be part of this remarkable, remote part of the British Isles.Our family of four is spending a week exploring it by kayak and Canadian canoe, by train and by foot. Stuart, our guide from Wilderness Scotland, is easy-going and unassuming, and also a font of knowledge and a meticulous safety checker. He has kitted us out in our super-modern waterproof gear that makes us look like a family of Scandinavian traffic cops, but about which even the teenager doesn't complain. It's Stuart who finds us a silver-sanded island with a ruined castle to stop on for lunch and then makes tea and extravagant sandwiches while we explore it.Most nights we sleep at the Glenuig Inn, an eco-hotel with a charming bar and locally sourced menu, on its own little bay where guests can simply haul up their sea-kayaks and stroll past the wandering sheep to the inn's 18th-century door. But we have opted for wild camping, too, and a night on an island is looming. The Glenuig staff make us home-smoked salmon breakfasts and wave us off with packed lunches. This time we take to Loch Moidart in sturdy Canadian canoes, two to a boat with room for tents and supplies, and Stuart's dog.A little way up the loch lies our private island camp. As the canoes slide on to the beach, there's a great splash. A deer that had been enjoying some private grazing on the island takes to her heels and swims on for a less congested spot. Our tents up and mozzie nets down, the fire lit and hot pasta dinner cooking away, that clear-skied evening is already looking fairly beautiful when the Highlands throws in a late sunset to make a pointillist weep.It dulls the pain of a visit from the midges. They arrive and stay for around an hour: we all whip on the very latest fine net hat invention and sit close to the fire until they clear off again as darkness falls. The other possible problem doesn't show at all. No rain. Which is a shame as a summer shower can really show the waterfalls and foamy hill streams at their atmospheric best.It is incredible how much colour this scenery can contain. The long days here \u2013 Scotland has four hours more daylight than London during summer \u2013 are driest and sunniest in May and June, although July is the warmest and August is the time to catch the purple of the Highland heather. September and October are for the reds \u2013 the dramatic shows of the rowan and birch.We spend another day on the water, this time on the MV Sheerwater, a\u00a0ferry from Arisaig to the archipelago of Eigg, Rum, Canna and Muck. We opt for a few hours wandering around Eigg \u2013 12 square miles of geographical wonders, \"singing sands\" (beaches of quartz that ring out when dry), puffins, eagles and caves, including the Massacre Cave \u2013 site of a 16th-century slaying of the island's 395 inhabitants. History echoes through this part of Scotland, where Bonnie Prince Charlie raised the Jacobite standard of rebellion, and many other battles and feuds have been fought since.It's also a place to find traces of a more modern hero. The Jacobite Express used in the Harry Potter films chugs between Mallaig and Fort William twice a day, charging across the Glenfinnan Viaduct with its spectacular view down Loch Shiel. A little boy across from us did the whole journey plugged into a Harry Potter audio CD, his eyes shining like a Hogwarts' first year. I defy anyone not to be delighted by this beautiful steam train \u2013 or the genuine magic of the West Highlands.Tracy McVeigh's trip was provided by Wilderness Scotland which offers 4-7 day guided family holidays from \u00a3475 per adult and \u00a3365 per child (01479 420 020; wildernessscotland.com). B&B was provided by Old Lodge Library, Arisaig (oldlibrary.co.uk) which has doubles from \u00a348, and Glenuig Inn, Glenuig (01687 470 219; glenuig.com) doubles from \u00a3100. Car hire was with Easy Drive car rental, Fort William. (01397 701 515; easydrivescotland.co.uk).Sheerwater Wildlife Cruises (arisaig.co.uk) has return fares from Arisaig to Eigg for \u00a318. Caledonian sleeper trains travel from London Euston to Fort William (scotrail.co.uk)", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Travel", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Family holidays"], "title": "Canoeing in Scotland"},{"date": "2013-04-24T20:00:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Even if Scotland votes for independence and manages to keep the pound (No currency union with independent Scotland, says Osborne, 24 April), there's another problem facing its choice of currency. There is a risk that the rest of the UK will decide to leave the EU, leaving Scotland using a currency controlled by a non-EU state. It's hard to believe that this will be a practical proposition, and harder still to believe that the EU will stand for it. English and Scottish politicians haven't mentioned this issue so far. They may be trying to consider the Scottish and EU referendums as separate matters. But don't worry, I'm sure the European Central Bank is considering it.John DallmanCambridge\u2022\u2008Scotland is a bumpy country and thrives on bumpy rides. The currency issues are not a doddle. But there is substantial evidence pointing to the resilience of Scotland's economy. The real issue is democracy and the traction which the Scottish people have with what happens in their everyday lives. So far, even with the restricted powers available, Alex Salmond and his ministers have secured better services all round. Greater autonomy will enable fresh creativity even within outmoded international currency systems.Ann JamiesonCaldecote, Cambridgeshire\u2022\u2008Philip Inman (Analysis, 24 April) suggests calling an independent Scottish currency a Scotdollar. If the Irish had the punt, we should have the poond!John and Karen StoneleyFoulden, Scottish Borders\u2022\u2008If the Scots cannot use sterling as their currency, they could presumably base their gold standard on the McNugget.Peter RussellTunbridge Wells, Kent\u2022\u2008Can someone remind me how many mickles make a muckle?Alan CleaverWhitehaven, Cumbria", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Letters: Currency questions for Scotland"},{"date": "2013-06-28T17:57:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scottish shoppers will have to pay at least 5p to take their purchases home in single-use shopping bags from October.The Scottish government's decision to impose a mandatory charge for disposable carriers comes after similar measures were introduced in Wales in 2011 and in Northern Ireland in April this year. It will leave England as the only UK nation without a mandatory charge on carrier bags.Scotland has opted for a minimum charge that will apply to all retailers handing out single-use bags, no matter what material they are made of. Some types of bag, such as those for prescriptions or fresh fruit, will be exempt.Retailers must hand the proceeds from the charge to charity. Larger retailers will have to report to the government how many bags they have handed out and how much they have donated to charity. Smaller retailers will not have to report centrally, but will be expected to make a public statement on bag use, such as a sign in the store.Scotland's environment secretary, Richard Lochhead, said: \"Discarded carrier bags highlight our throwaway society. We use more carrier bags per head in Scotland than any other part of the UK, and this is unsustainable. By reducing the amount being carelessly discarded, we can cut litter and its impact on our environment and economy.\"Andrew Pendleton, head of campaigns at environmental group Friends of the Earth, pointed to the successful introduction of charges in other countries, and urged a similar move in England: \"England is long overdue a plastic bag tax to tackle the appalling waste caused by unwanted bags. We're lagging behind Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and many US states and European countries.\"The Republic of Ireland and several other countries have also taken action against plastic bags which, while only representing a tiny amount of the rubbish thrown away each year, are viewed as emblematic of human impact on the environment. Bags have been found in the stomachs of animals and birds even far out to sea and are a highly visible and long-lasting sign of pollution when blown into trees and hedgerows.The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which would oversee any such charge in England, said it was \"determined to tackle the blight caused by plastic bags\". A spokeswoman said Defra would consider the results of the Welsh scheme and \"look with interest at the Scottish government's proposals\" to help inform its decision but gave no indication when any regulations might be introduced.Last year, the government-backed Waste Resources Action Programme (Wrap) revealed a 22% drop in the number of single-use plastic bags in Wales in 2011 compared with the year before, while England used 7.5% more.The UK used 8bn bags in 2011, up 5.4% on the year before but a third down on 2006, when retailers signed a voluntary agreement to cut bag use by 50%.Retailers said the recent rise in the number of bags being used reflected in a change in shopping habits as cash-strapped Brits opt for several small shops a week rather than one big trip.Industry trade association the Scottish Retail Consortium said that the country's retailers had already taken a lead in reducing waste and its impact on the environment by cutting carrier bag use by over 40% between 2006 and 2012. \"The Scottish government has decided that it wants further and faster reductions and the only way it can achieve this is through legislation. However, it is our view that if we focus solely on plastic bags, we are in danger of being distracted from much larger and more important issues around waste,\" said director Fiona Moriarty.", "tags": ["Plastic bags", "Waste", "Environment", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland introduces 5p charge on carrier bags"},{"date": "2013-06-13T19:19:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Despite George Osborne's claims that Stephen Hester's departure from RBS was part of an orderly transition \u2013 made by \"mutual agreement\" and all the usual platitudes \u2013 it was clearly anything but. However golden his goodbye, the chief exec plainly did not want to go; in a set-piece interview a few days ago, he declared his desire to complete the \"mission\" of turning around a crisis-hit bank. As if to underline that his surprise resignation owed more to heavy pushing than a happy jump, Mr Hester confessed to \"some human regrets\" at not seeing RBS through to privatisation. Fat chance of that happening: the bank is aiming at some kind of sale by the end of 2014; Mr Hester will probably be out by this Christmas.His exit triggered an immediate run on RBS shares yesterday, as well as raising three discrete but linked questions, each of them vital to the health of the British economy: about the health of RBS, which remains one of the largest banking groups in the world; about the coalition's policy towards its state-owned banks; and about just how much the City will change after the crash.Since accepting Alistair Darling's plea in autumn 2008 to run RBS, Mr Hester has done a good job within narrow parameters. The share price may still be depressed, especially compared with that other large nationalised bank, Lloyds, where shares are now worth more than before the government bought them. But in just over four years, the chief executive took an institution that under Fred Goodwin grew too fast and too dangerously, defused \"the biggest balance-sheet timebomb in corporate history\" and removed over \u00a3700bn in toxic assets. Problems still arise regularly, such as last year's IT failure, or the revelation of entanglement in the fixing of inter-bank rates. Even so, Mr Hester has got about two-thirds through one hell of a business recovery job. No wonder the air is so full of speculation about which lucrative City perch he will land on next.But there is a world of difference between managing a recovering bank, and managing a recovering bank that is 81% owned by taxpayers \u2013 who are themselves enduring a slump triggered in part by the collapse of their bank. Mr Hester and his chair, Sir Philip Hampton, have sometimes behaved as if the crash never happened. Just this February, they told MPs that the CEO's basic pay of \u00a31.2m a year was \"modest\" by market standards. Which it is \u2013 if you want to compare the bank to businesses not on state life-support. Yet the bankers aren't alone in their detachment from reality; so, too, are their political masters. This was certainly true of the Labour ministers who decided to own the banks without exercising commensurate control. Instead of using his stakes in the banks to force them to strategically important industries and regions, Mr Darling parked his assets in a hands-off Whitehall investor and maintained the illusion of shareholder normality. This gave conflicting signals to Mr Hester and his colleagues, both at RBS and Lloyds.Still, it is better than how the coalition is running pell-mell towards pre-election privatisation. This week, one Conservative thinktank released a report sketching out how Mr Osborne could sell RBS and Lloyds. At his Mansion House speech next week, the chancellor might lay out plans to auction off Lloyds; this will doubtless be the purest coincidence. The most immediate risk is that taxpayers will fail to recoup the billions they've ploughed into the banking sector, and for the sake of the chancellor showering a little cheer around in the form of cut-price shares.But the bigger risk is that, after a historic crash, very little will have changed in banking. What should have led to an industry overhauled, with the big banks broken up and being mandated to lend strategically (rather than merely blow noughties-style bubbles), will give way to a rebuilding of the same old financialised, debt-addicted economy we had in 2007. It is against that backdrop that Mr Hester should be regarded: as an able financial technocrat at a time when what Britain really needed was a Roosevelt.", "tags": ["Stephen Hester", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland: Hester la vista | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T22:07:39Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As with David Cameron's recent trip to Scotland to put the case for a Trident missile that has always been especially divisive there, the readiness of the chancellor to tread on to the unfamiliar political terrain of Scottish independence is a sign of confidence \u2013 confidence that the strength of the unionist cause will carry the day in spite of the unpopularity of the coalition in London. It is surely healthier that Westminster's principal players are getting involved \u2013 what would it say about the state of the union if they felt unable to? \u2013 and Mr Osborne raised one of many important questions about how independence would work, questions inevitably neglected until the fixing of the referendum date focused minds. The Treasury's document leaned too a little heavily on the scaremongering side.The tactical temptation to highlight the parallel between a post-independence \"sterling union\" and the creaking eurozone is obvious enough: there's always mileage in fear. Like every other unionist on both sides of the border, Mr Osborne's immediate concern is winning next year's vote. But it just won't wash to imply that renewing the vows of an long-established monetary marriage is equivalent to the wedding of disparate economies. If independence arrived, what's left of the UK would have to negotiate around this new brute fact, as well as taking account of the reality that London would be powerless to stop a go-it-alone Scotland unilaterally retaining sterling \u2013 considerations which would encourage a more flexible stance than Mr Osborne was prepared to concede yesterday.The deeper weakness revealed by the chancellor's tactics is a lack of strategic engagement with what happens after the referendum outcome he hopes for. Sadly, the failure to provide an alternative vision of a union that is sustainable into the future is a weakness shared with too many politicians from all of the anti-nationalist parties. Scottish Labour and its Tory and Lib Dem counterparts have all been thinking about fresh potential devolutionary steps in some depth, but until they can generate more interest from their English colleagues, they will struggle to produce a blueprint that makes sense for the UK as a whole, or creates the impression of permanence. Scottish Labour recently made a principled case for retaining benefits as UK-wide obligations. But the party that once boasted that devolution would kill nationalism \"stone dead\" now views devolution as an ongoing journey, \"a journey towards true home rule\".The danger for unionism is that the nationalist tide is met with a run of unplanned concessions, without any real thought about where they are headed. Even if independence gets the thumbs down, legislation already passed will see further fiscal powers passed to Scotland in 2016; and the big three Westminster parties are considering plans that would transfer yet more power. If unionists on both sides of the border hope for something more than a pyrrhic victory in the referendum, it is time for them to start thinking about a constitution that could endure \u2013 and to explain where their journey will end.What with the Scottish Labour commission, this Treasury report and the SNP's hurried response, this may go down as the week when some of the nitty-gritty of the independence debate finally got an airing. About time too. The hope of the Better Together campaign is that the more the independence argument is subjected to detailed interrogation, the wobblier it will look. But the SNP's case and appeal increasingly rely on the sense that Scotland is hobbled by a Westminster that defines the national economic interest as by what happens in the City. Mr Osborne and his counterparts had better have something concrete to offer on this front. For their part, the Scottish Nationalists must do more to explain the wellsprings of growth for an independent polity. Green tech and IT? Or a low-tax, light-regulation entrepot for international businesses and footloose finance? That debate is one urgently needed not just in Scotland, but across the union.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Trident", "George Osborne", "David Cameron"], "title": "Scotland: the nitty-gritty of an ideal | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-23T12:47:53Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, has accused George Osborne of using \"shock tactics and scaremongering\" to defeat the rational case for a currency pact between an independent Scotland and the UK.Swinney said the chancellor's warnings that the UK was unlikely to agree to set up a sterling zone with an independent Scotland would damage the wider British economy, rather than help it.He was reacting to stark warnings from Osborne on Tuesday morning in Glasgow, where he unveiled a detailed Treasury critique of Alex Salmond's proposals for Scotland to create a sterling area currency union, with the Bank of England as Scotland's central bank and its bank of last resort.The Treasury argues there were a series of economic, political and technical problems with a small foreign country \u2013 Scotland \u2013 joining in a currency union with a much larger neighbour. That unstable relationship could hurt the UK's economy and weaken sterling overall, it said.Swinney said forcing Scotland to use its own currency or join the euro by blocking a sterling zone would erect unnecessary trade barriers that would damage UK businesses that trade heavily with Scottish customers.It would undermine the UK's heavily integrated single market, Swinney told BBC Radio Scotland, in which Scotland's oil wealth contributed \u00a340bn to the UK's balance of payments in 2011 and where Scottish cross-border trade is worth \u00a345bn a year.\"The chancellor's argument fundamentally comes from a very arrogant point of view which suggests somehow [that] the pound is just the property of the rest of the UK. The pound, the Bank of England, is as much in the ownership of Scotland as it's in the ownership of any other part of the UK,\" he added.There was a compelling case for a currency agreement between both countries, he said. After a yes vote in next year's referendum, arriving at a joint agreement to preserve sterling across the UK would be the most rational decision.That position had been set out by the Scottish government's independent fiscal commission, which includes the Nobel laureate Joseph Steiglitz and is chaired by the businessman and former Scottish Enterprise chief executive, Crawford Beveridge.\"The chancellor is making great play in all of this about the importance of a single market and we accept that point of view, and that's why we're trying to put in place arrangements that will enable companies to operate in a single market environment, but would enable us in Scotland to establish the type of economic conditions that are appropriate for Scotland,\" the finance secretary said.\"What the chancellor has done today is set out the pre-referendum stance, the shock tactics and scaremongering that goes on daily.\"After the referendum, in the face of a compelling yes vote from the people of Scotland, the Bank of England, the UK government will adopt a fundamentally different attitude because they will need to put in place workable arrangements and we have provided them with those.\"Patrick Harvie, the Scottish Green leader, whose party supports Scottish independence, said both sides were engaged in a \"phoney war\".He said Scotland should keep an open mind about creating its own currency, with a sterling deal just a short-term measure.\"In the event of a yes vote both sides would need to recognise the mandate given by the people, and settle down to the real negotiations,\" Harvie said.\"Scotland's hand in those negotiations would be strengthened if we did the groundwork on our own currency so we keep it as a realistic medium-term option.\"Osborne's economic credibility is in tatters and now he's attempting to wage a phoney war by suggesting we're doomed unless we stick with the existing arrangements \u2013 arrangements which fail to reflect our needs and aspirations.\"If Scotland votes for full control of our own affairs it is reasonable to expect our economic priorities to diverge from the rest of the UK, so we would be wise to keep our currency options open.\"But Alistair Darling, the former Labour chancellor and chair of the pro-UK Better Together campaign, said the Treasury was correct to raise the difficulties and complexities of reaching that agreement \u2013 in part because Scotland's options of leaving the sterling pact would undermine its credibility.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Economic policy", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "George Osborne", "Sterling", "Currencies", "Business"], "title": "Scotland currency row: Osborne accused of 'scaremongering'"},{"date": "2013-04-21T22:52:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Ed Miliband made a confident speech to the Scottish Labour party conference at the weekend. Yet it contained nothing about the kind of relationship between Scotland and the rest of the UK that he would like to see if Scotland rejects independence in 2014 and he becomes prime minister in 2015. Tactically, that omission may be understandable. The proposals that Labour put forward only last week do not command united support in the party's ranks. Insofar as Mr Miliband wants to discuss the referendum, he naturally wants to focus on the question that will be on the ballot paper \u2013 independence, yes or no \u2013 not on the devolution settlement that a Labour government, if there is one, might promote after a no vote, if there is one.Yet the omission was a pity, all the same. The Scottish Labour devolution commission report is an important contribution to the constitutional debate. This would be true of any document that the largest of the anti-independence parties in Scotland produced on the subject, of course. But last week's document highlights some big questions that have been relatively neglected in the debate over Scotland's future. Labour deserves credit for putting them back on the agenda. They deserve thoughtful debate on both sides of the border. And if that means rows, such as the one this weekend over Holyrood's tax-setting powers, so be it.The most important of these questions is whether welfare spending should be devolved to the Scottish parliament, which it is not at present. Much of the debate about third way alternatives to independence and the status quo has focused too quickly on the devo-max alternative, which to many of its supporters means full fiscal devolution to Scotland while remaining within the UK. Fair enough, if that is what Scots want. But the trouble with devo-max is that it is little more than de facto independence without the de jure separation. It leaves the UK dimension of Scottish life largely confined to defence and foreign policy, plus cheering on Team GB at the Olympics.The case for not devolving welfare spending is that pensions, benefits and the welfare state provide a material form of solidarity between the people of these islands. It means that the union is not just about identity and defence but about accepting a shared responsibility for the old and needy from Worthing to Wick. Crudely, it also means that Scots can benefit materially from the wealth of London and south-east England. If Scots prefer to devolve welfare behind Scottish borders, they are entitled to do so. But if UK solidarity \u2013 and the rhetoric of one nation \u2013 is to mean something for every person in every corner of a devolved UK, much is to be said for caution over cutting one of the strongest ties that bind.", "tags": ["Labour", "Scottish independence", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland"], "title": "Labour and Scotland: a tie that binds | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-09T15:30:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When I started knocking on Highland doors in May 1983, two things struck me more than any other. First was the sheer depth of hostility towards the Tories in general. Second was the particular hostility towards Margaret Thatcher and her local ministerial spear-carrier, energy minister and incumbent MP of 13 years' standing, Hamish Gray. People would denounce them unequivocally, often in graphic terms. More than once the view was advanced that it was a pity the IRA had not succeeded in their ultimate objective when they bombed the Grand Hotel in Brighton. This is not the Highland way.And then, perversely, would come the throwaway, sign-off remark \u2013 to the effect of: \"At least you know where you stand with Maggie \u2013 she hates us and we hate her.\"Therein, 30 years ago, lay the great Thatcher asset \u2013 and the electorally lethal Thatcher impact in Scotland. A strong, so strong, leader. Sharp definition, hard edges, no effort at fuzzy contours (David Cameron, take note). Yet a leader that a wide cross-section of Scots had come to despise. As I spread my wings in politics, I discovered many Thatcher voters down south who were the same kind of people who loathed her in Scotland. They were puzzled by the Scots' antipathy, given the Falklands war and the strong militaristic history of the Highlands and elsewhere.Like John Major in her wake, Thatcher was convinced that she understood the Scots \u2013 yet couldn't understand why we remained so stubbornly resistant towards the notion of understanding her. But we reckoned we got Thatcher only too well and didn't like what we saw, far less what we heard.That 1983 general election contained the telltale seeds of eventual Scottish Tory self-destruction. The Tories triumphed, of course, and lost only two sitting MPs \u2013 Hamish Gray and the social-security scrounger-bashing Iain Sproat, who vacated his marginal Aberdeen seat and headed for the Scottish Borders, only to suffer defeat there at the hands of the Alliance. By 1987, anti-Tory tactical voting had taken hold. A decade later they were wiped out in terms of Scotland-based Westminster constituency representation. Scottish \u2013 and by extension UK \u2013 politics has been skewed ever since.If the Falklands war was the making of Thatcher, then the poll tax was her achilles heel \u2013 not least in Scotland. That, plus (inevitable) de-industrialisation, coupled to her perceived overbearing and patronising manner. We were not unique in such a response but she failed to appreciate that Scots are balanced, canny folk \u2013 insofar as we have a well-developed chip on each shoulder. Scotland was her mission impossible.In the current wall-to-wall media welter, I caught the current leader of the Scottish Tories, Ruth Davison MSP, being asked if Thatcher was an electoral asset for her. She pointed out that she was only 10 years old when she ceased to be prime minister. Certainly, in 1983, it did not occur to me to criticise Harold Macmillan or Alec Douglas-Home on the doorstep as a sure-fire vote turner.The fact that the Thatcher question even gets asked confirms vividly just what an upas tree she remains for Scottish Toryism.", "tags": ["Margaret Thatcher", "Scotland", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Conservatives"], "title": "Scotland was Margaret Thatcher's mission impossible | Charles Kennedy"},{"date": "2013-04-06T23:02:04Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Once you leave the M8 near Lanark, the 90-minute drive from Glasgow to the little Borders town of Innerleithen becomes a delight. Soon, you are reproaching yourself once more for waiting this long to discover another of Scotland's beautiful places. The town is a cradle of ancient and modern Scottish history. The outlines of an iron age fort sit at the top of Caerlee Hill to the west of Innerleithen, while local folk history says that the town was founded by the pilgrim monk St Ronan in the early 8th century. \"St Ronan cleik't the de'il by the hind leg and banished him,\" a local legend tells us. For one young family, though, who recently made their home in this magical place, the Devil returned to Innerleithen four years ago and has been tormenting them ever since.Dr Eamonn O'Neill is known to many in the newspaper trade as one of Scotland's finest investigative journalists. His work has obtained justice in several high-profile cases where men were wrongly imprisoned for serious crimes they did not commit. As a senior lecturer at Strathclyde University's acclaimed school of journalism, he now passes on his skills to the next generation. In this context, the irony of what he, his wife and his twin five-year-old boys have been through has not been lost on him.The ordeal began several years ago when two properties below Dr O'Neill's began to metamorphose into a Dodge City tavern, but without the cuddly bits. According to Eamonn: \"There were drunken and violent disturbances almost every night of the week with drugs being openly dealt on the street outside.\"An escalation in the violence occurred when a new tenant took up residence in the property which, the O'Neills learned, belonged to the Scottish Borders Housing Association. The couple's twin sons were less than a year old at this time and Eamonn began to complain to the SBHO. Not long afterwards, he was approached by his new neighbour who threatened to \"do\" him and to kill his wife and children. The individual would later be revealed in court as James Armstrong, a 59-year-old with a history of domestic abuse. On reporting this encounter to the police, Eamonn was told there was little they could do as there was no corroboration.He didn't have to wait long. The following year, 2011, Armstrong repeated the threat to kill Sarah and the children. This time, though, both adults were present when the threat was made and this enabled the police to arrest and charge him. The O'Neills describe this period as \"like living in a war zone\".Anxious about the continuing danger to both his wife and children, Eamonn consulted a security specialist. Thus they were advised to construct a \"panic room\" in their home as a potential refuge for Sarah and the twins in the event of \"something\" happening when Eamonn wasn't present. Sarah was also supplied with a personal panic alarm. In September 2011, Armstrong pleaded guilty to threatening and abusive behaviour. He surrendered his tenancy as part of his plea and was served with a 12-month asbo stopping him from returning to the building. An extraordinary two-year crasbo (criminal antisocial behaviour order) was also granted preventing him from contacting the family in any way.The family's ordeal was far from over and it is at this point that the Scottish Borders Housing Association begins to emerge in its alternative guise of chocolate teapot. For, despite numerous requests, it failed to have Armstrong evicted, even though he had surrendered his tenancy. Eventually, Armstrong was jailed for a separate crime and, once more, the family pressed the SBHA to move to evict. The SBHA's continued refusal to do so had begun to assume a sinister aspect in the minds of the O'Neills as the existence of three different pieces of legislation in Scots law gave the SBHA ample opportunity to do so. In the absence of any action by the housing association, Eamonn was forced to give evidence against Armstrong in court on several occasions.Ten days ago, this violent individual was released from jail and headed straight back to the SBHA property adjacent to the O'Neills. Astonishingly, the SBHA had failed to process his exclusion. And so, in 21st-century Scotland, home of a groovy new single police authority, a blameless husband and wife and their twin five-year-old boys had to flee from their home in the middle of the night. Again. Somehow, in a country that is addicted to enacting new legislation and discovering new ways of putting people in jail, the protection of the law, of the state and of the judiciary could not reach the O'Neills.I spent last Tuesday afternoon with them at their home to which they had returned after learning that Armstrong was to be removed the following day. In fact, it took two more days for him to leave, during which time the family were prisoners in their own home. When he did eventually leave on Friday morning, it wasn't before Sarah and her two boys, by chance, encountered him in a common alley at their property.This, though, was not the most sickening aspect of last Friday. That came in a press release from the SBHA congratulating itself for having finally brought the issue to a successful conclusion and nowhere acknowledging its connivance at the campaign of terror endured by the O'Neills since 2009.My friend and former colleague has spent his entire working life helping victims of injustice and ensuring that their human rights are respected. This good man discovered \u2013 to his horror and to our eternal shame \u2013 that his family's human rights were worth absolutely nothing.If any decency at all is to emerge from this, then Julia Mulloy, the chief executive of the Scottish Borders Housing Association, will have resigned by the end of the coming week. And before the end of the year, an investigation into the customs, practices and ethics of the SBHA will be underway.\u2022 Comments will remain off for legal reasons", "tags": ["Housing", "Communities", "Society", "Police", "UK news", "Scotland"], "title": "What price justice in modern Scotland?  | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2013-09-15T23:15:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All Britain's main political parties are keen supporters of the union. All will be campaigning for a no vote in next year's Scottish independence referendum. Only the Liberal Democrats, however, have thought to hold their annual party conference in Scotland in the runup. Their welcome presence in Glasgow this week is a reminder that no party has held a UK-wide annual conference north of the border since the Lib Dems themselves were last by the Clyde in 1995. Labour last held its annual conference in Scotland in 1936, in Edinburgh, while the Conservative and Unionist party has never done so, in spite of its name. That omission is hardly one of Scotland's main grievances, but it is symptomatic of the way the London-based parties tend to think. Given the importance of next year's vote, it is good that the Lib Dems have travelled north \u2013 and good that they will be back in Glasgow again in 2014, a few weeks after the referendum.", "tags": ["Liberal Democrats", "Liberal Democrat conference 2013", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 conferring in Scotland | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-15T23:15:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All Britain's main political parties are keen supporters of the union. All will be campaigning for a no vote in next year's Scottish independence referendum. Only the Liberal Democrats, however, have thought to hold their annual party conference in Scotland in the runup. Their welcome presence in Glasgow this week is a reminder that no party has held a UK-wide annual conference north of the border since the Lib Dems themselves were last by the Clyde in 1995. Labour last held its annual conference in Scotland in 1936, in Edinburgh, while the Conservative and Unionist party has never done so, in spite of its name. That omission is hardly one of Scotland's main grievances, but it is symptomatic of the way the London-based parties tend to think. Given the importance of next year's vote, it is good that the Lib Dems have travelled north \u2013 and good that they will be back in Glasgow again in 2014, a few weeks after the referendum.", "tags": ["Liberal Democrats", "Liberal Democrat conference 2013", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 conferring in Scotland | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T20:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When we talk of great Scottish coasts we're usually thinking about the west: the hundreds of islands and the intricately-jagged mainland shores where each new landfall has its own unique beauty. Nearly 70% of Britain's coastline is Scottish, so it's little wonder there's such variety \u2013 from the wildernesses of Knoydart and Jura to the volatile grandeur of St Kilda; from the picture-perfect settlements of Plockton or Applecross to the empty paradises all\u00a0the way from Assynt to\u00a0Ardnamurchan.I prefer the west coast, but I'm from the east, the island-less north-east \u2013 that heavy chin that juts out into the North Sea towards Norway \u2013 but it's hard not to love, eventually, the place that formed you. The temperament in the east is very different from the southern cities of the Central Belt, or the Gaelic-inflected west. You are living by the sea \u2013 mostly off the sea \u2013 with your back to the Highlands, surrounded by an intense folk culture of myth, song and superstition and the\u00a0highest density of standing stones in Britain. By virtue of the brutal weather, long winters and endless damp, the north-east people are canted slightly, against the wind and rain, perhaps against the world, and might seem thrawn or taciturn to outsiders. I think, though, that it's being caught forever between great mountains and a\u00a0huge sea: their eyes have learned to take in distance.As a boy, I was taken round this great jaw of Scotland, from the ruins of Dunnottar Castle to the wind-breaks of Hopeman Beach: wondrous places like Cruden Bay, the hundred-foot sea cauldron of the Bullers of Buchan, and up round the corner to Macduff, Cullen and Lossiemouth. But the best was closest to home. Just north of Aberdeen, on the road that used to sport a homemade sign \u2013 Farmers! Do not trust to luck! Try instead our Turriff muck! \u2013 you could turn off for Balmedie, and the beach.The sands stretch 14 miles from the mouth of the Don at Aberdeen to the mouth of the Ythan at Newburgh and form one of the finest dune systems in Europe. Kept in place by nothing more than marram grass, these huge sand-mountains are a small Sahara: shifting and sighing and deeply, beautifully, alien \u2013 the perfect playground for a child. And below the dunes: the North Sea, softened here by a slow shelf and sand-bars.I was a lifeguard on this beach, for a season: watching the tides, hoping that no one would need to be saved. On the last day of the summer, or near enough, we saw a swimmer in a wetsuit go in north of our flags. We tried to track him, but the waves were high and we guessed he must have come back to shore. Then suddenly there was a black head bobbing up \u2013 far out, but right between our flags of duty \u2013 so I was obliged, as the strongest swimmer, to go in.As I got to 30 yards away he went down, for longer than felt comfortable, coming up again a little way off. I\u00a0was against the tide, but pushed on till I\u00a0got closer; saw him rise and fall again.\u00a0Drowners come up twice, they\u00a0say, then down for good. When I finally reached where I thought I'd seen him last, he came up snuffling \u2013 and smiling, almost: this 10ft, whiskery\u00a0grey seal. I almost drowned, myself, laughing.It was not the seal that needed saving, but the place itself. Balmedie has attracted the attentions of that charmless bully, Donald Trump, who built a characteristically vulgar golf resort nearby \u2013 with the initial assistance of Alex Salmond. Scotland is a vulnerable paradise but it will survive this, as it has survived most things, and it still has the most sublime\u00a0beaches I know: empty under a huge sky, dramatic, unspoilt and utterly ravishing.\u2022 Robin Robertson's fifth collection of poetry, Hill of Doors, is out now. To buy a copy for \u00a37.99 with free UK p&p call 0330 333 6846 or go to guardianbookshop.co.uk. He reads at the Edinburgh book festival (edbookfest.co.uk) on Sunday", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "Heritage", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Robin Robertson's favourite beach: Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland"},{"date": "2013-09-15T23:15:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All Britain's main political parties are keen supporters of the union. All will be campaigning for a no vote in next year's Scottish independence referendum. Only the Liberal Democrats, however, have thought to hold their annual party conference in Scotland in the runup. Their welcome presence in Glasgow this week is a reminder that no party has held a UK-wide annual conference north of the border since the Lib Dems themselves were last by the Clyde in 1995. Labour last held its annual conference in Scotland in 1936, in Edinburgh, while the Conservative and Unionist party has never done so, in spite of its name. That omission is hardly one of Scotland's main grievances, but it is symptomatic of the way the London-based parties tend to think. Given the importance of next year's vote, it is good that the Lib Dems have travelled north \u2013 and good that they will be back in Glasgow again in 2014, a few weeks after the referendum.", "tags": ["Liberal Democrats", "Liberal Democrat conference 2013", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 conferring in Scotland | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T20:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When we talk of great Scottish coasts we're usually thinking about the west: the hundreds of islands and the intricately-jagged mainland shores where each new landfall has its own unique beauty. Nearly 70% of Britain's coastline is Scottish, so it's little wonder there's such variety \u2013 from the wildernesses of Knoydart and Jura to the volatile grandeur of St Kilda; from the picture-perfect settlements of Plockton or Applecross to the empty paradises all\u00a0the way from Assynt to\u00a0Ardnamurchan.I prefer the west coast, but I'm from the east, the island-less north-east \u2013 that heavy chin that juts out into the North Sea towards Norway \u2013 but it's hard not to love, eventually, the place that formed you. The temperament in the east is very different from the southern cities of the Central Belt, or the Gaelic-inflected west. You are living by the sea \u2013 mostly off the sea \u2013 with your back to the Highlands, surrounded by an intense folk culture of myth, song and superstition and the\u00a0highest density of standing stones in Britain. By virtue of the brutal weather, long winters and endless damp, the north-east people are canted slightly, against the wind and rain, perhaps against the world, and might seem thrawn or taciturn to outsiders. I think, though, that it's being caught forever between great mountains and a\u00a0huge sea: their eyes have learned to take in distance.As a boy, I was taken round this great jaw of Scotland, from the ruins of Dunnottar Castle to the wind-breaks of Hopeman Beach: wondrous places like Cruden Bay, the hundred-foot sea cauldron of the Bullers of Buchan, and up round the corner to Macduff, Cullen and Lossiemouth. But the best was closest to home. Just north of Aberdeen, on the road that used to sport a homemade sign \u2013 Farmers! Do not trust to luck! Try instead our Turriff muck! \u2013 you could turn off for Balmedie, and the beach.The sands stretch 14 miles from the mouth of the Don at Aberdeen to the mouth of the Ythan at Newburgh and form one of the finest dune systems in Europe. Kept in place by nothing more than marram grass, these huge sand-mountains are a small Sahara: shifting and sighing and deeply, beautifully, alien \u2013 the perfect playground for a child. And below the dunes: the North Sea, softened here by a slow shelf and sand-bars.I was a lifeguard on this beach, for a season: watching the tides, hoping that no one would need to be saved. On the last day of the summer, or near enough, we saw a swimmer in a wetsuit go in north of our flags. We tried to track him, but the waves were high and we guessed he must have come back to shore. Then suddenly there was a black head bobbing up \u2013 far out, but right between our flags of duty \u2013 so I was obliged, as the strongest swimmer, to go in.As I got to 30 yards away he went down, for longer than felt comfortable, coming up again a little way off. I\u00a0was against the tide, but pushed on till I\u00a0got closer; saw him rise and fall again.\u00a0Drowners come up twice, they\u00a0say, then down for good. When I finally reached where I thought I'd seen him last, he came up snuffling \u2013 and smiling, almost: this 10ft, whiskery\u00a0grey seal. I almost drowned, myself, laughing.It was not the seal that needed saving, but the place itself. Balmedie has attracted the attentions of that charmless bully, Donald Trump, who built a characteristically vulgar golf resort nearby \u2013 with the initial assistance of Alex Salmond. Scotland is a vulnerable paradise but it will survive this, as it has survived most things, and it still has the most sublime\u00a0beaches I know: empty under a huge sky, dramatic, unspoilt and utterly ravishing.\u2022 Robin Robertson's fifth collection of poetry, Hill of Doors, is out now. To buy a copy for \u00a37.99 with free UK p&p call 0330 333 6846 or go to guardianbookshop.co.uk. He reads at the Edinburgh book festival (edbookfest.co.uk) on Sunday", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "Heritage", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Robin Robertson's favourite beach: Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland"},{"date": "2013-07-05T17:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard detectives were on Friday attempting to track down a secret recording of Rupert Murdoch admitting to Sun journalists that payments to public officials were part of \"the culture of Fleet Street\".A police officer connected to the Operation Elveden investigation into illicit payments from journalists has made a formal request to Exaro News, the investigations website that broke the story, to hand over the undercover tape.DCI Laurence Smith told Exaro News that the police would seek a production order compelling it to disclose the recording if it did not do so voluntarily. It is understood the police have also approached Channel 4, which aired a small part of the recordings.The development is the clearest indication yet that police in London are ready to examine Murdoch's private disclosures since the tapes emerged on Wednesday night. Murdoch is recorded saying the culture of paying police officers for stories \"existed at every newspaper in Fleet Street. Long since forgotten. But absolutely.\"Mark Watts, the editor-in-chief of Exaro News, said he had not handed any material to Scotland Yard and the force had not made clear \"what they want, or why exactly they want it\".He said: \"We are making public everything that we have, and I cannot see how else we can help. Like everyone else, they just need to keep logging on to Exaro. One thing is for certain, unlike News International, we will not \u2013 under any circumstances \u2013 betray confidential sources.\"Although the 82-year-old media mogul did not admit knowing that any of his employees specifically paid public officials, he was recorded on two separate occasions describing the practice as part of the culture of Fleet Street.On one clip published by Exaro News, an unidentified Sun journalist asks him: \"I'm pretty confident that the working practices that I've seen here are ones that I've inherited, rather than instigated. Would you recognise that all this predates many of our involvement here?\"Murdoch replies: \"We're talking about payments for news tips from cops. That's been going on a hundred years, absolutely. You didn't instigate it.\" Earlier in the tape, Murdoch tells the Sun journalists: \"I don't know of anybody, or anything, that did anything that wasn't being done across Fleet Street and wasn't the culture.\"News UK, formerly known as News International, has maintained that Murdoch \"never knew of payments made by Sun staff to police before News Corporation disclosed that to UK authorities\". Scotland Yard, meanwhile, said it would not give a \"running commentary\" on Operation Elveden.The press law campaign group Hacked Off on Friday urged the Commons culture, media and sport select committee to recall Murdoch, and said he \"may have committed contempt of parliament\".Evan Harris, the associate director of the group, wrote to the cross-party committee's chairman, John Whittingdale MP, saying: \"There is a strong prima facie case that Mr Murdoch may have committed contempt of parliament by misleading your committee over his true response to the police investigations into phone hacking and bribery of public officials.\"As far as the victims of phone hacking are concerned, the appropriate course of action is for the committee to recall him at the earliest available opportunity to explain the discrepancies between the expressions of remorse he made to you and the defiant and unrepentant tone of his private remarks earlier this year.\"The leaked recordings revealed for the first time the level of bitterness harboured by arrested Sun journalists towards News Corporation's management and standards committee (MSC), which was tasked with handing over internal documents to the police. After the first arrests in early 2012, a source close to the MSC described the operation as \"draining the swamp\".In an interview published on Friday, the Sun's crime editor, Mike Sullivan, said of that phrase: \"After 20 years on the paper, I admit I felt sick to my stomach at that. And I still do.\" Sullivan was arrested under Operation Elveden in January 2012 and cleared in April 2013.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Media", "The Sun", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Metropolitan police", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard seeks Rupert Murdoch secret tape"},{"date": "2013-09-15T23:15:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All Britain's main political parties are keen supporters of the union. All will be campaigning for a no vote in next year's Scottish independence referendum. Only the Liberal Democrats, however, have thought to hold their annual party conference in Scotland in the runup. Their welcome presence in Glasgow this week is a reminder that no party has held a UK-wide annual conference north of the border since the Lib Dems themselves were last by the Clyde in 1995. Labour last held its annual conference in Scotland in 1936, in Edinburgh, while the Conservative and Unionist party has never done so, in spite of its name. That omission is hardly one of Scotland's main grievances, but it is symptomatic of the way the London-based parties tend to think. Given the importance of next year's vote, it is good that the Lib Dems have travelled north \u2013 and good that they will be back in Glasgow again in 2014, a few weeks after the referendum.", "tags": ["Liberal Democrats", "Liberal Democrat conference 2013", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 conferring in Scotland | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T20:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When we talk of great Scottish coasts we're usually thinking about the west: the hundreds of islands and the intricately-jagged mainland shores where each new landfall has its own unique beauty. Nearly 70% of Britain's coastline is Scottish, so it's little wonder there's such variety \u2013 from the wildernesses of Knoydart and Jura to the volatile grandeur of St Kilda; from the picture-perfect settlements of Plockton or Applecross to the empty paradises all\u00a0the way from Assynt to\u00a0Ardnamurchan.I prefer the west coast, but I'm from the east, the island-less north-east \u2013 that heavy chin that juts out into the North Sea towards Norway \u2013 but it's hard not to love, eventually, the place that formed you. The temperament in the east is very different from the southern cities of the Central Belt, or the Gaelic-inflected west. You are living by the sea \u2013 mostly off the sea \u2013 with your back to the Highlands, surrounded by an intense folk culture of myth, song and superstition and the\u00a0highest density of standing stones in Britain. By virtue of the brutal weather, long winters and endless damp, the north-east people are canted slightly, against the wind and rain, perhaps against the world, and might seem thrawn or taciturn to outsiders. I think, though, that it's being caught forever between great mountains and a\u00a0huge sea: their eyes have learned to take in distance.As a boy, I was taken round this great jaw of Scotland, from the ruins of Dunnottar Castle to the wind-breaks of Hopeman Beach: wondrous places like Cruden Bay, the hundred-foot sea cauldron of the Bullers of Buchan, and up round the corner to Macduff, Cullen and Lossiemouth. But the best was closest to home. Just north of Aberdeen, on the road that used to sport a homemade sign \u2013 Farmers! Do not trust to luck! Try instead our Turriff muck! \u2013 you could turn off for Balmedie, and the beach.The sands stretch 14 miles from the mouth of the Don at Aberdeen to the mouth of the Ythan at Newburgh and form one of the finest dune systems in Europe. Kept in place by nothing more than marram grass, these huge sand-mountains are a small Sahara: shifting and sighing and deeply, beautifully, alien \u2013 the perfect playground for a child. And below the dunes: the North Sea, softened here by a slow shelf and sand-bars.I was a lifeguard on this beach, for a season: watching the tides, hoping that no one would need to be saved. On the last day of the summer, or near enough, we saw a swimmer in a wetsuit go in north of our flags. We tried to track him, but the waves were high and we guessed he must have come back to shore. Then suddenly there was a black head bobbing up \u2013 far out, but right between our flags of duty \u2013 so I was obliged, as the strongest swimmer, to go in.As I got to 30 yards away he went down, for longer than felt comfortable, coming up again a little way off. I\u00a0was against the tide, but pushed on till I\u00a0got closer; saw him rise and fall again.\u00a0Drowners come up twice, they\u00a0say, then down for good. When I finally reached where I thought I'd seen him last, he came up snuffling \u2013 and smiling, almost: this 10ft, whiskery\u00a0grey seal. I almost drowned, myself, laughing.It was not the seal that needed saving, but the place itself. Balmedie has attracted the attentions of that charmless bully, Donald Trump, who built a characteristically vulgar golf resort nearby \u2013 with the initial assistance of Alex Salmond. Scotland is a vulnerable paradise but it will survive this, as it has survived most things, and it still has the most sublime\u00a0beaches I know: empty under a huge sky, dramatic, unspoilt and utterly ravishing.\u2022 Robin Robertson's fifth collection of poetry, Hill of Doors, is out now. To buy a copy for \u00a37.99 with free UK p&p call 0330 333 6846 or go to guardianbookshop.co.uk. He reads at the Edinburgh book festival (edbookfest.co.uk) on Sunday", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "Heritage", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Robin Robertson's favourite beach: Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland"},{"date": "2013-07-05T17:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard detectives were on Friday attempting to track down a secret recording of Rupert Murdoch admitting to Sun journalists that payments to public officials were part of \"the culture of Fleet Street\".A police officer connected to the Operation Elveden investigation into illicit payments from journalists has made a formal request to Exaro News, the investigations website that broke the story, to hand over the undercover tape.DCI Laurence Smith told Exaro News that the police would seek a production order compelling it to disclose the recording if it did not do so voluntarily. It is understood the police have also approached Channel 4, which aired a small part of the recordings.The development is the clearest indication yet that police in London are ready to examine Murdoch's private disclosures since the tapes emerged on Wednesday night. Murdoch is recorded saying the culture of paying police officers for stories \"existed at every newspaper in Fleet Street. Long since forgotten. But absolutely.\"Mark Watts, the editor-in-chief of Exaro News, said he had not handed any material to Scotland Yard and the force had not made clear \"what they want, or why exactly they want it\".He said: \"We are making public everything that we have, and I cannot see how else we can help. Like everyone else, they just need to keep logging on to Exaro. One thing is for certain, unlike News International, we will not \u2013 under any circumstances \u2013 betray confidential sources.\"Although the 82-year-old media mogul did not admit knowing that any of his employees specifically paid public officials, he was recorded on two separate occasions describing the practice as part of the culture of Fleet Street.On one clip published by Exaro News, an unidentified Sun journalist asks him: \"I'm pretty confident that the working practices that I've seen here are ones that I've inherited, rather than instigated. Would you recognise that all this predates many of our involvement here?\"Murdoch replies: \"We're talking about payments for news tips from cops. That's been going on a hundred years, absolutely. You didn't instigate it.\" Earlier in the tape, Murdoch tells the Sun journalists: \"I don't know of anybody, or anything, that did anything that wasn't being done across Fleet Street and wasn't the culture.\"News UK, formerly known as News International, has maintained that Murdoch \"never knew of payments made by Sun staff to police before News Corporation disclosed that to UK authorities\". Scotland Yard, meanwhile, said it would not give a \"running commentary\" on Operation Elveden.The press law campaign group Hacked Off on Friday urged the Commons culture, media and sport select committee to recall Murdoch, and said he \"may have committed contempt of parliament\".Evan Harris, the associate director of the group, wrote to the cross-party committee's chairman, John Whittingdale MP, saying: \"There is a strong prima facie case that Mr Murdoch may have committed contempt of parliament by misleading your committee over his true response to the police investigations into phone hacking and bribery of public officials.\"As far as the victims of phone hacking are concerned, the appropriate course of action is for the committee to recall him at the earliest available opportunity to explain the discrepancies between the expressions of remorse he made to you and the defiant and unrepentant tone of his private remarks earlier this year.\"The leaked recordings revealed for the first time the level of bitterness harboured by arrested Sun journalists towards News Corporation's management and standards committee (MSC), which was tasked with handing over internal documents to the police. After the first arrests in early 2012, a source close to the MSC described the operation as \"draining the swamp\".In an interview published on Friday, the Sun's crime editor, Mike Sullivan, said of that phrase: \"After 20 years on the paper, I admit I felt sick to my stomach at that. And I still do.\" Sullivan was arrested under Operation Elveden in January 2012 and cleared in April 2013.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Media", "The Sun", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Metropolitan police", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard seeks Rupert Murdoch secret tape"},{"date": "2013-09-26T17:30:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If the current polling numbers hold steady, the Scottish public will reject the opportunity to make their country independent from the rest of the UK next autumn. It is perhaps a bit surprising then that the majority of Scots, 62% of them, deemed themselves \"Scottish only\" in the 2011 census. Only 18% of respondents called themselves \"Scottish and British\", which suggests that any sort of British national identity is close to fading north of the border. It's important to bear in mind that the census did not just include Scots. 83% of the 5.3 million people resident in Scotland in 2011 were born there while 8.7% were born in England. 8.4% described themselves as 'just British' and 2.3% said 'English'.Unfortunately, this is the first time that the census has collected data on national identity, so we can't see how Scottish residents viewed themselves in 2001 when Scottish Labour were still in power. However, we can take a more detailed look at the make-up of modern Scotland. The area that had the biggest proportion of residents identifying themselves as 'Scottish only' was West Dunbartonshire where 72% of people gave that answer. Only 6% of people identified as simply 'British' while 17.3% were 'Scottish and British'. Both North Lanarkshire and East Dunbartonshire had similar figures. Unsurprisingly, all three of these locations have a higher than average proportion of residents who were born in Scotland. More than nine out of ten people in all three were Scottish-born. While in Scotland's capital fewer than half of respondents identified themselves as 'Scottish only', the proportion identifying as 'British and Scottish' was pretty close to the national average at 18%. This would probably be down to a higher percentage of people born outside the UK being resident there and, accordingly, 11.4% give themselves an identity that is not Scottish or British. Scotland is more diverse than it has ever been, with 4% of the population now coming from an ethnic minority background, which is double the proportion given in the last census in 2001. What was perhaps the most remarkable shift though was the huge increase in Scotland's Polish population. 55,000 people born in Poland were living in Scotland at the time of the 2011 census, more than twice the number born in Ireland. This means that Poland is now the place of birth for 15% of Scottish residents born outside of the UK.Do you read the numbers differently? Take a look and let us know what you think below.\u2022 Download the full spreadsheet\u2022 Contact us at data@theguardian.com\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Census"], "title": "Where in Scotland do people feel the most Scottish?"},{"date": "2013-09-15T23:15:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All Britain's main political parties are keen supporters of the union. All will be campaigning for a no vote in next year's Scottish independence referendum. Only the Liberal Democrats, however, have thought to hold their annual party conference in Scotland in the runup. Their welcome presence in Glasgow this week is a reminder that no party has held a UK-wide annual conference north of the border since the Lib Dems themselves were last by the Clyde in 1995. Labour last held its annual conference in Scotland in 1936, in Edinburgh, while the Conservative and Unionist party has never done so, in spite of its name. That omission is hardly one of Scotland's main grievances, but it is symptomatic of the way the London-based parties tend to think. Given the importance of next year's vote, it is good that the Lib Dems have travelled north \u2013 and good that they will be back in Glasgow again in 2014, a few weeks after the referendum.", "tags": ["Liberal Democrats", "Liberal Democrat conference 2013", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 conferring in Scotland | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T20:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When we talk of great Scottish coasts we're usually thinking about the west: the hundreds of islands and the intricately-jagged mainland shores where each new landfall has its own unique beauty. Nearly 70% of Britain's coastline is Scottish, so it's little wonder there's such variety \u2013 from the wildernesses of Knoydart and Jura to the volatile grandeur of St Kilda; from the picture-perfect settlements of Plockton or Applecross to the empty paradises all\u00a0the way from Assynt to\u00a0Ardnamurchan.I prefer the west coast, but I'm from the east, the island-less north-east \u2013 that heavy chin that juts out into the North Sea towards Norway \u2013 but it's hard not to love, eventually, the place that formed you. The temperament in the east is very different from the southern cities of the Central Belt, or the Gaelic-inflected west. You are living by the sea \u2013 mostly off the sea \u2013 with your back to the Highlands, surrounded by an intense folk culture of myth, song and superstition and the\u00a0highest density of standing stones in Britain. By virtue of the brutal weather, long winters and endless damp, the north-east people are canted slightly, against the wind and rain, perhaps against the world, and might seem thrawn or taciturn to outsiders. I think, though, that it's being caught forever between great mountains and a\u00a0huge sea: their eyes have learned to take in distance.As a boy, I was taken round this great jaw of Scotland, from the ruins of Dunnottar Castle to the wind-breaks of Hopeman Beach: wondrous places like Cruden Bay, the hundred-foot sea cauldron of the Bullers of Buchan, and up round the corner to Macduff, Cullen and Lossiemouth. But the best was closest to home. Just north of Aberdeen, on the road that used to sport a homemade sign \u2013 Farmers! Do not trust to luck! Try instead our Turriff muck! \u2013 you could turn off for Balmedie, and the beach.The sands stretch 14 miles from the mouth of the Don at Aberdeen to the mouth of the Ythan at Newburgh and form one of the finest dune systems in Europe. Kept in place by nothing more than marram grass, these huge sand-mountains are a small Sahara: shifting and sighing and deeply, beautifully, alien \u2013 the perfect playground for a child. And below the dunes: the North Sea, softened here by a slow shelf and sand-bars.I was a lifeguard on this beach, for a season: watching the tides, hoping that no one would need to be saved. On the last day of the summer, or near enough, we saw a swimmer in a wetsuit go in north of our flags. We tried to track him, but the waves were high and we guessed he must have come back to shore. Then suddenly there was a black head bobbing up \u2013 far out, but right between our flags of duty \u2013 so I was obliged, as the strongest swimmer, to go in.As I got to 30 yards away he went down, for longer than felt comfortable, coming up again a little way off. I\u00a0was against the tide, but pushed on till I\u00a0got closer; saw him rise and fall again.\u00a0Drowners come up twice, they\u00a0say, then down for good. When I finally reached where I thought I'd seen him last, he came up snuffling \u2013 and smiling, almost: this 10ft, whiskery\u00a0grey seal. I almost drowned, myself, laughing.It was not the seal that needed saving, but the place itself. Balmedie has attracted the attentions of that charmless bully, Donald Trump, who built a characteristically vulgar golf resort nearby \u2013 with the initial assistance of Alex Salmond. Scotland is a vulnerable paradise but it will survive this, as it has survived most things, and it still has the most sublime\u00a0beaches I know: empty under a huge sky, dramatic, unspoilt and utterly ravishing.\u2022 Robin Robertson's fifth collection of poetry, Hill of Doors, is out now. To buy a copy for \u00a37.99 with free UK p&p call 0330 333 6846 or go to guardianbookshop.co.uk. He reads at the Edinburgh book festival (edbookfest.co.uk) on Sunday", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "Heritage", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Robin Robertson's favourite beach: Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland"},{"date": "2013-07-05T17:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard detectives were on Friday attempting to track down a secret recording of Rupert Murdoch admitting to Sun journalists that payments to public officials were part of \"the culture of Fleet Street\".A police officer connected to the Operation Elveden investigation into illicit payments from journalists has made a formal request to Exaro News, the investigations website that broke the story, to hand over the undercover tape.DCI Laurence Smith told Exaro News that the police would seek a production order compelling it to disclose the recording if it did not do so voluntarily. It is understood the police have also approached Channel 4, which aired a small part of the recordings.The development is the clearest indication yet that police in London are ready to examine Murdoch's private disclosures since the tapes emerged on Wednesday night. Murdoch is recorded saying the culture of paying police officers for stories \"existed at every newspaper in Fleet Street. Long since forgotten. But absolutely.\"Mark Watts, the editor-in-chief of Exaro News, said he had not handed any material to Scotland Yard and the force had not made clear \"what they want, or why exactly they want it\".He said: \"We are making public everything that we have, and I cannot see how else we can help. Like everyone else, they just need to keep logging on to Exaro. One thing is for certain, unlike News International, we will not \u2013 under any circumstances \u2013 betray confidential sources.\"Although the 82-year-old media mogul did not admit knowing that any of his employees specifically paid public officials, he was recorded on two separate occasions describing the practice as part of the culture of Fleet Street.On one clip published by Exaro News, an unidentified Sun journalist asks him: \"I'm pretty confident that the working practices that I've seen here are ones that I've inherited, rather than instigated. Would you recognise that all this predates many of our involvement here?\"Murdoch replies: \"We're talking about payments for news tips from cops. That's been going on a hundred years, absolutely. You didn't instigate it.\" Earlier in the tape, Murdoch tells the Sun journalists: \"I don't know of anybody, or anything, that did anything that wasn't being done across Fleet Street and wasn't the culture.\"News UK, formerly known as News International, has maintained that Murdoch \"never knew of payments made by Sun staff to police before News Corporation disclosed that to UK authorities\". Scotland Yard, meanwhile, said it would not give a \"running commentary\" on Operation Elveden.The press law campaign group Hacked Off on Friday urged the Commons culture, media and sport select committee to recall Murdoch, and said he \"may have committed contempt of parliament\".Evan Harris, the associate director of the group, wrote to the cross-party committee's chairman, John Whittingdale MP, saying: \"There is a strong prima facie case that Mr Murdoch may have committed contempt of parliament by misleading your committee over his true response to the police investigations into phone hacking and bribery of public officials.\"As far as the victims of phone hacking are concerned, the appropriate course of action is for the committee to recall him at the earliest available opportunity to explain the discrepancies between the expressions of remorse he made to you and the defiant and unrepentant tone of his private remarks earlier this year.\"The leaked recordings revealed for the first time the level of bitterness harboured by arrested Sun journalists towards News Corporation's management and standards committee (MSC), which was tasked with handing over internal documents to the police. After the first arrests in early 2012, a source close to the MSC described the operation as \"draining the swamp\".In an interview published on Friday, the Sun's crime editor, Mike Sullivan, said of that phrase: \"After 20 years on the paper, I admit I felt sick to my stomach at that. And I still do.\" Sullivan was arrested under Operation Elveden in January 2012 and cleared in April 2013.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Media", "The Sun", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Metropolitan police", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard seeks Rupert Murdoch secret tape"},{"date": "2013-09-26T17:30:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If the current polling numbers hold steady, the Scottish public will reject the opportunity to make their country independent from the rest of the UK next autumn. It is perhaps a bit surprising then that the majority of Scots, 62% of them, deemed themselves \"Scottish only\" in the 2011 census. Only 18% of respondents called themselves \"Scottish and British\", which suggests that any sort of British national identity is close to fading north of the border. It's important to bear in mind that the census did not just include Scots. 83% of the 5.3 million people resident in Scotland in 2011 were born there while 8.7% were born in England. 8.4% described themselves as 'just British' and 2.3% said 'English'.Unfortunately, this is the first time that the census has collected data on national identity, so we can't see how Scottish residents viewed themselves in 2001 when Scottish Labour were still in power. However, we can take a more detailed look at the make-up of modern Scotland. The area that had the biggest proportion of residents identifying themselves as 'Scottish only' was West Dunbartonshire where 72% of people gave that answer. Only 6% of people identified as simply 'British' while 17.3% were 'Scottish and British'. Both North Lanarkshire and East Dunbartonshire had similar figures. Unsurprisingly, all three of these locations have a higher than average proportion of residents who were born in Scotland. More than nine out of ten people in all three were Scottish-born. While in Scotland's capital fewer than half of respondents identified themselves as 'Scottish only', the proportion identifying as 'British and Scottish' was pretty close to the national average at 18%. This would probably be down to a higher percentage of people born outside the UK being resident there and, accordingly, 11.4% give themselves an identity that is not Scottish or British. Scotland is more diverse than it has ever been, with 4% of the population now coming from an ethnic minority background, which is double the proportion given in the last census in 2001. What was perhaps the most remarkable shift though was the huge increase in Scotland's Polish population. 55,000 people born in Poland were living in Scotland at the time of the 2011 census, more than twice the number born in Ireland. This means that Poland is now the place of birth for 15% of Scottish residents born outside of the UK.Do you read the numbers differently? Take a look and let us know what you think below.\u2022 Download the full spreadsheet\u2022 Contact us at data@theguardian.com\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Census"], "title": "Where in Scotland do people feel the most Scottish?"},{"date": "2013-09-21T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Glasgow's west end is blessed with bohemian sophistication, good transport links and large Georgian homes. Should Scotland vote yes in the independence referendum next year, it will be one of the new nation's most desirable destinations. But it also has its share of boarded-up shops, especially away from the buzz of Byres Road and its trendy bars and restaurants. And it is the solution to that problem, not the lure of a middle-class enclave, that will be a key factor in the 2014 poll.According to the Scottish independence movement, high streets scarred by empty shops are reason enough to break away from Westminster's political dominance. Campaign group Business for Scotland, which wants a permanent break with England, Wales and Northern Ireland, said in a report last week that reforms to the planning system and business rates \u2013 a levy on retail properties \u2013 could revive Scottish high streets.On business rates, a newly unchained Scottish parliament could institute an immediate revaluation of properties, bringing with it a higher threshold before rates are payable and allowing some businesses to escape payment altogether. The levy could also apply to businesses with several stores, which would \"encourage small independent chains\".Elsewhere in Scotland last week, supporters of the status quo fought back. At their conference in Glasgow's Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre, a stone's throw from the west end, the Liberal Democrats offered a good deal of tax autonomy within the union. Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg told delegates that voting no did not mean \"no change\" for Scotland. He cited a proposal from the home rule commission, headed by former party leader Sir Menzies Campbell, for a federal arrangement that included proposals for Holyrood to collect almost all income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax. Air passenger duty was also on the list of devolved taxes, though not VAT, alcohol or excise duties.Further devolution may be what happens if the yes vote fall short of 50%, but it has been sidelined as an argument while the SNP leader Alex Salmond works hard to secure an all-or-nothing vote for independence. Salmond has always put the business and economic case for independence at the centre of his argument, knowing that many floating voters are concerned that border controls could threaten their jobs.Businesses have proved reluctant to comment on the debate. Most believe there is little to gain from taking sides and have left the discussion to their trade bodies and people such as Sir George Mathewson, former chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland, who have long since retired. Businesses that have taken their grievances to Salmond have complained about the uncertainty until the vote and the likelihood of a wrestling match between London and Edinburgh over North Sea oil if Scotland votes yes, as well as the wrangling over the division of public debts for years afterwards.Energy firm SSE and engineering business Weir Group are both seeking assurances from Salmond that their regulatory and tax costs will not rise. Last year, the chief executive of Weir, Keith Cochrane, said: \"If there is to be change in these areas, business logic would suggest that this must be because it will provide benefits that the status quo cannot. That means providing the facts and figures to support change and allowing companies to plan in advance.\"Anecdotally, many senior executives in Edinburgh's finance sector are believed to despair of the pro-independence lobby. Many bosses inside the banks and insurance companies behind Princes Street believe that erecting a border between them and London will increase their costs and lower their standing.The EU would want a new member state to have its own independent financial regulator. Should Scotland keep the pound, as Salmond intends, there is a question mark over its relationship with the Bank of England as lender of last resort. The UK response to the banking crisis has been to put the Bank in charge of money and financial regulation \u2013 which means it will want a say over Scottish financial regulation if it is still lender of last resort to Scottish banks.In a way, Scotland will experience the dilemmas faced by Ireland, Portugal and Greece when their finance ministers troop into the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. The ECB, along in tandem with the EU commission chiefs in Brussels, has made it clear that only close political, fiscal and banking union can make a monetary union work. All the eurozone countries are facing an erosion of sovereignty in order to rescue a monetary union battered by the banking crisis.Gavin McCrone, in his book Scottish Independence, says Scotland could never have coped with the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland. \"It would not have been able to cope with the losses incurred by its banks, whatever arrangements had been put in place, and, even if the banks and Scottish authorities had had the foresight to ensure that operations outside Scotland were conducted by subsidiaries regulated in those countries, they would have faced the same problems as Ireland.\"A white paper in November is expected to reconcile many of these questions. Meanwhile, a Scottish government spokesman has made it clear that maintaining the Bank of England as the central bank was \"part and parcel\" of SNP plans to keep the pound. He said: \"An independent Scotland would establish a credible fiscal framework to ensure that Scotland's public finances were put on a sustainable footing. Estimates are that North Sea oil and gas contributed \u00a311bn in revenues last year, with \u00a31.5 trillion of oil and gas left to be extracted, putting Scotland in a stronger financial position than the rest of the UK.\"Phil Anderton, a former boss of the Scottish Rugby Union and Heart of Midlothian football club, points out that oil revenues are volatile and have slumped to \u00a31bn in some years. \"The SNP is selective about when money has flowed into the exchequer. Oil is volatile and there are many instances when it has failed to generate much income,\" he said. He is the only businessman so far to join the board of Better Together, the pro-union campaign run by former chancellor Alistair Darling. He said: \"The oil industry makes up 2% of the UK's GDP, but 20% of Scottish GDP, so we would be putting many of our eggs in one basket.\"But oil is a key selling point for the yes campaign. According to McCrone, a former economic adviser to several Scottish ministers and a lecturer in economics at Glasgow and Edinburgh universities, a successful grab of the entire industry and seabed would propel Scotland to near the top of the European wealth table, behind Luxembourg, Norway, Switzerland and Monaco. But this figure includes the large number of foreign firms operating in Aberdeen, most of which send their profits to overseas investors. It also presumes that the UK will happily relinquish drilling rights north of Berwick-on-Tweed.Even with a less generous oil settlement, McCrone argues that Scotland's economy has shown it can maintain living standards, which have improved per head in recent decades compared with the UK: \"The gap in output per head has narrowed. In Scotland it is now almost equal to the UK average, which shows that Scotland's position has improved.\"Businessman Ivan McKee, who joined the yes campaign after years of ambivalence, believes Scotland contributes more to the UK than it takes out. \"The opportunity to be like Norway is tremendous,\" he said. \"We have the natural resources and the sound finances. Independence is not about pulling up the drawbridge. It is about self-determination. The world is becoming more integrated from a business perspective and being independent does not detract from that.\"Still, Scotland has many problems that could place a great strain on its public finances. It currently receives 7% more in welfare expenditure from the Treasury than the UK average, to cope with the costs of providing for a more unhealthy and scattered population. A low birth rate and low immigration have meant there will be fewer young people in 2020 and 2030 to pay taxes and fund elderly care.That's not to say the boarded-up shops in Glasgow's west end won't find new customers: but no one can say for sure where the higher incomes will come from. When other small nations are choosing to sacrifice independence for economic security inside the eurozone, what makes Scotland so sure it can travel in the opposite direction?", "tags": ["Business", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Nick Clegg", "Sir Menzies Campbell"], "title": "Scotland splits on the economic benefits of freedom"},{"date": "2013-09-15T23:15:36Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "All Britain's main political parties are keen supporters of the union. All will be campaigning for a no vote in next year's Scottish independence referendum. Only the Liberal Democrats, however, have thought to hold their annual party conference in Scotland in the runup. Their welcome presence in Glasgow this week is a reminder that no party has held a UK-wide annual conference north of the border since the Lib Dems themselves were last by the Clyde in 1995. Labour last held its annual conference in Scotland in 1936, in Edinburgh, while the Conservative and Unionist party has never done so, in spite of its name. That omission is hardly one of Scotland's main grievances, but it is symptomatic of the way the London-based parties tend to think. Given the importance of next year's vote, it is good that the Lib Dems have travelled north \u2013 and good that they will be back in Glasgow again in 2014, a few weeks after the referendum.", "tags": ["Liberal Democrats", "Liberal Democrat conference 2013", "Liberal Democrat conference", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 conferring in Scotland | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-16T20:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When we talk of great Scottish coasts we're usually thinking about the west: the hundreds of islands and the intricately-jagged mainland shores where each new landfall has its own unique beauty. Nearly 70% of Britain's coastline is Scottish, so it's little wonder there's such variety \u2013 from the wildernesses of Knoydart and Jura to the volatile grandeur of St Kilda; from the picture-perfect settlements of Plockton or Applecross to the empty paradises all\u00a0the way from Assynt to\u00a0Ardnamurchan.I prefer the west coast, but I'm from the east, the island-less north-east \u2013 that heavy chin that juts out into the North Sea towards Norway \u2013 but it's hard not to love, eventually, the place that formed you. The temperament in the east is very different from the southern cities of the Central Belt, or the Gaelic-inflected west. You are living by the sea \u2013 mostly off the sea \u2013 with your back to the Highlands, surrounded by an intense folk culture of myth, song and superstition and the\u00a0highest density of standing stones in Britain. By virtue of the brutal weather, long winters and endless damp, the north-east people are canted slightly, against the wind and rain, perhaps against the world, and might seem thrawn or taciturn to outsiders. I think, though, that it's being caught forever between great mountains and a\u00a0huge sea: their eyes have learned to take in distance.As a boy, I was taken round this great jaw of Scotland, from the ruins of Dunnottar Castle to the wind-breaks of Hopeman Beach: wondrous places like Cruden Bay, the hundred-foot sea cauldron of the Bullers of Buchan, and up round the corner to Macduff, Cullen and Lossiemouth. But the best was closest to home. Just north of Aberdeen, on the road that used to sport a homemade sign \u2013 Farmers! Do not trust to luck! Try instead our Turriff muck! \u2013 you could turn off for Balmedie, and the beach.The sands stretch 14 miles from the mouth of the Don at Aberdeen to the mouth of the Ythan at Newburgh and form one of the finest dune systems in Europe. Kept in place by nothing more than marram grass, these huge sand-mountains are a small Sahara: shifting and sighing and deeply, beautifully, alien \u2013 the perfect playground for a child. And below the dunes: the North Sea, softened here by a slow shelf and sand-bars.I was a lifeguard on this beach, for a season: watching the tides, hoping that no one would need to be saved. On the last day of the summer, or near enough, we saw a swimmer in a wetsuit go in north of our flags. We tried to track him, but the waves were high and we guessed he must have come back to shore. Then suddenly there was a black head bobbing up \u2013 far out, but right between our flags of duty \u2013 so I was obliged, as the strongest swimmer, to go in.As I got to 30 yards away he went down, for longer than felt comfortable, coming up again a little way off. I\u00a0was against the tide, but pushed on till I\u00a0got closer; saw him rise and fall again.\u00a0Drowners come up twice, they\u00a0say, then down for good. When I finally reached where I thought I'd seen him last, he came up snuffling \u2013 and smiling, almost: this 10ft, whiskery\u00a0grey seal. I almost drowned, myself, laughing.It was not the seal that needed saving, but the place itself. Balmedie has attracted the attentions of that charmless bully, Donald Trump, who built a characteristically vulgar golf resort nearby \u2013 with the initial assistance of Alex Salmond. Scotland is a vulnerable paradise but it will survive this, as it has survived most things, and it still has the most sublime\u00a0beaches I know: empty under a huge sky, dramatic, unspoilt and utterly ravishing.\u2022 Robin Robertson's fifth collection of poetry, Hill of Doors, is out now. To buy a copy for \u00a37.99 with free UK p&p call 0330 333 6846 or go to guardianbookshop.co.uk. He reads at the Edinburgh book festival (edbookfest.co.uk) on Sunday", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Beach holidays", "Heritage", "United Kingdom holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Robin Robertson's favourite beach: Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland"},{"date": "2013-07-05T17:59:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard detectives were on Friday attempting to track down a secret recording of Rupert Murdoch admitting to Sun journalists that payments to public officials were part of \"the culture of Fleet Street\".A police officer connected to the Operation Elveden investigation into illicit payments from journalists has made a formal request to Exaro News, the investigations website that broke the story, to hand over the undercover tape.DCI Laurence Smith told Exaro News that the police would seek a production order compelling it to disclose the recording if it did not do so voluntarily. It is understood the police have also approached Channel 4, which aired a small part of the recordings.The development is the clearest indication yet that police in London are ready to examine Murdoch's private disclosures since the tapes emerged on Wednesday night. Murdoch is recorded saying the culture of paying police officers for stories \"existed at every newspaper in Fleet Street. Long since forgotten. But absolutely.\"Mark Watts, the editor-in-chief of Exaro News, said he had not handed any material to Scotland Yard and the force had not made clear \"what they want, or why exactly they want it\".He said: \"We are making public everything that we have, and I cannot see how else we can help. Like everyone else, they just need to keep logging on to Exaro. One thing is for certain, unlike News International, we will not \u2013 under any circumstances \u2013 betray confidential sources.\"Although the 82-year-old media mogul did not admit knowing that any of his employees specifically paid public officials, he was recorded on two separate occasions describing the practice as part of the culture of Fleet Street.On one clip published by Exaro News, an unidentified Sun journalist asks him: \"I'm pretty confident that the working practices that I've seen here are ones that I've inherited, rather than instigated. Would you recognise that all this predates many of our involvement here?\"Murdoch replies: \"We're talking about payments for news tips from cops. That's been going on a hundred years, absolutely. You didn't instigate it.\" Earlier in the tape, Murdoch tells the Sun journalists: \"I don't know of anybody, or anything, that did anything that wasn't being done across Fleet Street and wasn't the culture.\"News UK, formerly known as News International, has maintained that Murdoch \"never knew of payments made by Sun staff to police before News Corporation disclosed that to UK authorities\". Scotland Yard, meanwhile, said it would not give a \"running commentary\" on Operation Elveden.The press law campaign group Hacked Off on Friday urged the Commons culture, media and sport select committee to recall Murdoch, and said he \"may have committed contempt of parliament\".Evan Harris, the associate director of the group, wrote to the cross-party committee's chairman, John Whittingdale MP, saying: \"There is a strong prima facie case that Mr Murdoch may have committed contempt of parliament by misleading your committee over his true response to the police investigations into phone hacking and bribery of public officials.\"As far as the victims of phone hacking are concerned, the appropriate course of action is for the committee to recall him at the earliest available opportunity to explain the discrepancies between the expressions of remorse he made to you and the defiant and unrepentant tone of his private remarks earlier this year.\"The leaked recordings revealed for the first time the level of bitterness harboured by arrested Sun journalists towards News Corporation's management and standards committee (MSC), which was tasked with handing over internal documents to the police. After the first arrests in early 2012, a source close to the MSC described the operation as \"draining the swamp\".In an interview published on Friday, the Sun's crime editor, Mike Sullivan, said of that phrase: \"After 20 years on the paper, I admit I felt sick to my stomach at that. And I still do.\" Sullivan was arrested under Operation Elveden in January 2012 and cleared in April 2013.", "tags": ["Rupert Murdoch", "Media", "The Sun", "Newspapers & magazines", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Metropolitan police", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard seeks Rupert Murdoch secret tape"},{"date": "2013-09-26T17:30:23Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If the current polling numbers hold steady, the Scottish public will reject the opportunity to make their country independent from the rest of the UK next autumn. It is perhaps a bit surprising then that the majority of Scots, 62% of them, deemed themselves \"Scottish only\" in the 2011 census. Only 18% of respondents called themselves \"Scottish and British\", which suggests that any sort of British national identity is close to fading north of the border. It's important to bear in mind that the census did not just include Scots. 83% of the 5.3 million people resident in Scotland in 2011 were born there while 8.7% were born in England. 8.4% described themselves as 'just British' and 2.3% said 'English'.Unfortunately, this is the first time that the census has collected data on national identity, so we can't see how Scottish residents viewed themselves in 2001 when Scottish Labour were still in power. However, we can take a more detailed look at the make-up of modern Scotland. The area that had the biggest proportion of residents identifying themselves as 'Scottish only' was West Dunbartonshire where 72% of people gave that answer. Only 6% of people identified as simply 'British' while 17.3% were 'Scottish and British'. Both North Lanarkshire and East Dunbartonshire had similar figures. Unsurprisingly, all three of these locations have a higher than average proportion of residents who were born in Scotland. More than nine out of ten people in all three were Scottish-born. While in Scotland's capital fewer than half of respondents identified themselves as 'Scottish only', the proportion identifying as 'British and Scottish' was pretty close to the national average at 18%. This would probably be down to a higher percentage of people born outside the UK being resident there and, accordingly, 11.4% give themselves an identity that is not Scottish or British. Scotland is more diverse than it has ever been, with 4% of the population now coming from an ethnic minority background, which is double the proportion given in the last census in 2001. What was perhaps the most remarkable shift though was the huge increase in Scotland's Polish population. 55,000 people born in Poland were living in Scotland at the time of the 2011 census, more than twice the number born in Ireland. This means that Poland is now the place of birth for 15% of Scottish residents born outside of the UK.Do you read the numbers differently? Take a look and let us know what you think below.\u2022 Download the full spreadsheet\u2022 Contact us at data@theguardian.com\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Scotland", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Census"], "title": "Where in Scotland do people feel the most Scottish?"},{"date": "2013-09-21T23:05:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Glasgow's west end is blessed with bohemian sophistication, good transport links and large Georgian homes. Should Scotland vote yes in the independence referendum next year, it will be one of the new nation's most desirable destinations. But it also has its share of boarded-up shops, especially away from the buzz of Byres Road and its trendy bars and restaurants. And it is the solution to that problem, not the lure of a middle-class enclave, that will be a key factor in the 2014 poll.According to the Scottish independence movement, high streets scarred by empty shops are reason enough to break away from Westminster's political dominance. Campaign group Business for Scotland, which wants a permanent break with England, Wales and Northern Ireland, said in a report last week that reforms to the planning system and business rates \u2013 a levy on retail properties \u2013 could revive Scottish high streets.On business rates, a newly unchained Scottish parliament could institute an immediate revaluation of properties, bringing with it a higher threshold before rates are payable and allowing some businesses to escape payment altogether. The levy could also apply to businesses with several stores, which would \"encourage small independent chains\".Elsewhere in Scotland last week, supporters of the status quo fought back. At their conference in Glasgow's Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre, a stone's throw from the west end, the Liberal Democrats offered a good deal of tax autonomy within the union. Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg told delegates that voting no did not mean \"no change\" for Scotland. He cited a proposal from the home rule commission, headed by former party leader Sir Menzies Campbell, for a federal arrangement that included proposals for Holyrood to collect almost all income tax, capital gains tax and inheritance tax. Air passenger duty was also on the list of devolved taxes, though not VAT, alcohol or excise duties.Further devolution may be what happens if the yes vote fall short of 50%, but it has been sidelined as an argument while the SNP leader Alex Salmond works hard to secure an all-or-nothing vote for independence. Salmond has always put the business and economic case for independence at the centre of his argument, knowing that many floating voters are concerned that border controls could threaten their jobs.Businesses have proved reluctant to comment on the debate. Most believe there is little to gain from taking sides and have left the discussion to their trade bodies and people such as Sir George Mathewson, former chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland, who have long since retired. Businesses that have taken their grievances to Salmond have complained about the uncertainty until the vote and the likelihood of a wrestling match between London and Edinburgh over North Sea oil if Scotland votes yes, as well as the wrangling over the division of public debts for years afterwards.Energy firm SSE and engineering business Weir Group are both seeking assurances from Salmond that their regulatory and tax costs will not rise. Last year, the chief executive of Weir, Keith Cochrane, said: \"If there is to be change in these areas, business logic would suggest that this must be because it will provide benefits that the status quo cannot. That means providing the facts and figures to support change and allowing companies to plan in advance.\"Anecdotally, many senior executives in Edinburgh's finance sector are believed to despair of the pro-independence lobby. Many bosses inside the banks and insurance companies behind Princes Street believe that erecting a border between them and London will increase their costs and lower their standing.The EU would want a new member state to have its own independent financial regulator. Should Scotland keep the pound, as Salmond intends, there is a question mark over its relationship with the Bank of England as lender of last resort. The UK response to the banking crisis has been to put the Bank in charge of money and financial regulation \u2013 which means it will want a say over Scottish financial regulation if it is still lender of last resort to Scottish banks.In a way, Scotland will experience the dilemmas faced by Ireland, Portugal and Greece when their finance ministers troop into the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. The ECB, along in tandem with the EU commission chiefs in Brussels, has made it clear that only close political, fiscal and banking union can make a monetary union work. All the eurozone countries are facing an erosion of sovereignty in order to rescue a monetary union battered by the banking crisis.Gavin McCrone, in his book Scottish Independence, says Scotland could never have coped with the collapse of Royal Bank of Scotland. \"It would not have been able to cope with the losses incurred by its banks, whatever arrangements had been put in place, and, even if the banks and Scottish authorities had had the foresight to ensure that operations outside Scotland were conducted by subsidiaries regulated in those countries, they would have faced the same problems as Ireland.\"A white paper in November is expected to reconcile many of these questions. Meanwhile, a Scottish government spokesman has made it clear that maintaining the Bank of England as the central bank was \"part and parcel\" of SNP plans to keep the pound. He said: \"An independent Scotland would establish a credible fiscal framework to ensure that Scotland's public finances were put on a sustainable footing. Estimates are that North Sea oil and gas contributed \u00a311bn in revenues last year, with \u00a31.5 trillion of oil and gas left to be extracted, putting Scotland in a stronger financial position than the rest of the UK.\"Phil Anderton, a former boss of the Scottish Rugby Union and Heart of Midlothian football club, points out that oil revenues are volatile and have slumped to \u00a31bn in some years. \"The SNP is selective about when money has flowed into the exchequer. Oil is volatile and there are many instances when it has failed to generate much income,\" he said. He is the only businessman so far to join the board of Better Together, the pro-union campaign run by former chancellor Alistair Darling. He said: \"The oil industry makes up 2% of the UK's GDP, but 20% of Scottish GDP, so we would be putting many of our eggs in one basket.\"But oil is a key selling point for the yes campaign. According to McCrone, a former economic adviser to several Scottish ministers and a lecturer in economics at Glasgow and Edinburgh universities, a successful grab of the entire industry and seabed would propel Scotland to near the top of the European wealth table, behind Luxembourg, Norway, Switzerland and Monaco. But this figure includes the large number of foreign firms operating in Aberdeen, most of which send their profits to overseas investors. It also presumes that the UK will happily relinquish drilling rights north of Berwick-on-Tweed.Even with a less generous oil settlement, McCrone argues that Scotland's economy has shown it can maintain living standards, which have improved per head in recent decades compared with the UK: \"The gap in output per head has narrowed. In Scotland it is now almost equal to the UK average, which shows that Scotland's position has improved.\"Businessman Ivan McKee, who joined the yes campaign after years of ambivalence, believes Scotland contributes more to the UK than it takes out. \"The opportunity to be like Norway is tremendous,\" he said. \"We have the natural resources and the sound finances. Independence is not about pulling up the drawbridge. It is about self-determination. The world is becoming more integrated from a business perspective and being independent does not detract from that.\"Still, Scotland has many problems that could place a great strain on its public finances. It currently receives 7% more in welfare expenditure from the Treasury than the UK average, to cope with the costs of providing for a more unhealthy and scattered population. A low birth rate and low immigration have meant there will be fewer young people in 2020 and 2030 to pay taxes and fund elderly care.That's not to say the boarded-up shops in Glasgow's west end won't find new customers: but no one can say for sure where the higher incomes will come from. When other small nations are choosing to sacrifice independence for economic security inside the eurozone, what makes Scotland so sure it can travel in the opposite direction?", "tags": ["Business", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Alex Salmond", "Nick Clegg", "Sir Menzies Campbell"], "title": "Scotland splits on the economic benefits of freedom"},{"date": "2013-09-21T15:39:49Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish first minister told thousands of pro-independence marchers in Edinburgh that there is a natural majority for Scottish independence.Alex Salmond said: \"There is now in this country a natural majority for a Yes vote. The people want a parliament that makes decisions for the people of Scotland.\"He said he would keep Royal Mail in public hands and ban the bedroom tax in an independent Scotland that he led.We will put \"bairns before bombs\", the Scottish National Party leader added as he talked about nuclear disarmament. \"We have now in 362 days' time the opportunity of a lifetime. The forces against us thrive on doubt but they can be dispelled.\"The Yes campaign said 20,000 people joined the march to mark the beginning of a year of campaigning until the independence referendum on 18 September.Addressing the rally on Calton Hill, the Yes Scotland chief executive, Blair Jenkins, said: \"I am asked a lot of questions as I take our message around the country. One question I am often asked is: What will we lose?\"Well, we would lose nuclear weapons, the bedroom tax, Tory governments we have never voted for, and what's not to love about that? We are the lucky generation that gets to vote for independence and vote for self-determination for our country.\"Dennis Canavan, the chairman of the Yes Scotland Advisory Board, told the crowd that opinion polls which suggested Scots would not vote for independence should not worry them. \"This campaign is more like a marathon rather than a short sprint. And having run a few marathons in my time, I know that the runner who is ahead at the halfway stage is not necessarily the winner of the race. We have the people with the stamina, guts and determination to win this campaign \u2013 and win it we shall.\"", "tags": ["Edinburgh", "Scotland", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Alex Salmond tells rally Scotland has 'natural majority' for independence"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-06T19:32:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish referendum loomed over yesterday's announcement that cuts in shipbuilding jobs are going to be focused on Portsmouth more than on Scotland. If a yard north of the border had been closed, it is all too easy to imagine how this could have played into the Scottish National party's narrative of a London Tory government insensitive to Scottish interests. As it is, the government can point to the decision as evidence of how Scotland benefits from the union.The message is clear. Vote no to independence, and Scotland's shipyards can continue to get new orders from the UK Ministry of Defence, and be in pole position for the construction of the Royal Navy's new frigate later this decade. Vote yes, and the Scottish yards are likely to suffer the same fate as Portsmouth, with thousands of job losses in areas of already high unemployment.But the implications for defence of a yes vote go well beyond jobs in shipbuilding. It's becoming clear that the future of London and Edinburgh's defence relations would be at the heart of the separation settlement, the main details of which would have to be negotiated within months, if not weeks, of the referendum.The SNP is proposing the creation of an army, navy and air force from scratch, using assets inherited from existing UK forces. But it is also committed to removing nuclear weapons from Scotland, despite the lack of an operating base in the rest of the UK to which they could be moved. This would have far-reaching implications. Though it would be in the strong interests of both parties to have a close and co-operative relationship post-independence, in the aftermath of a fiercely fought campaign an attempt by Scottish negotiators to force the UK's denuclearisation could poison relations between the countries for years. The UK would hence be much less likely to support Scotland's interests on a wide range of other issues, domestic and international. The risks of economic recession and financial crisis could grow quickly.So it would be vital for Scotland to compromise. A deal on Trident bases could open the way to a wider security settlement \u2013 for example, UK support for Scottish Nato and EU membership.A Trident agreement could also open the way to cross-border co-operation on conventional defence. The RAF could continue to operate air patrols from its Scottish base. The navy's attack submarines could continue their contribution to NATO from their base on the Clyde. And most of the Scottish regiments, whether based in Scotland or England, could remain part of an integrated British army.Within the broader umbrella of this continuing UK presence, the Scottish Defence Force would be able to develop incrementally, focusing its initial efforts on addressing vulnerabilities in areas \u2013 such as cyber defence and countering terrorism and organised crime \u2013 with an immediate need to build new national capabilities.Such an arrangement would minimise the job losses were Scotland to take over (and probably downsize) current bases. Under a wider deal on bases, Scotland's negotiators could also ask London to agree that its defence companies be treated on the same basis as those in the rest of the UK.A more gradual approach to building Scotland's defence capabilities could reduce its security budget, saving as much as \u00a32bn a year from its current notional contribution to the costs of UK defence costs.With or without a special defence relationship, an independent Scotland would remain profoundly dependent on its southern neighbour for security, even while absent when vital decisions are being made.A special defence relationship, however, could reduce inefficiencies and uncertainties that might otherwise result from the separation process. And it might provide some hope to shipbuilding workers on the Clyde.\u2022\u00a0Malcolm Chalmers will be speaking at the Global Security, National Defence, and the Future of Scotland conference at the University of Glasgow, which takes place on Nov 8 and 9", "tags": ["Scotland", "Military", "Defence policy", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland, shipyards and security | Malcolm Chalmers"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-06T19:32:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish referendum loomed over yesterday's announcement that cuts in shipbuilding jobs are going to be focused on Portsmouth more than on Scotland. If a yard north of the border had been closed, it is all too easy to imagine how this could have played into the Scottish National party's narrative of a London Tory government insensitive to Scottish interests. As it is, the government can point to the decision as evidence of how Scotland benefits from the union.The message is clear. Vote no to independence, and Scotland's shipyards can continue to get new orders from the UK Ministry of Defence, and be in pole position for the construction of the Royal Navy's new frigate later this decade. Vote yes, and the Scottish yards are likely to suffer the same fate as Portsmouth, with thousands of job losses in areas of already high unemployment.But the implications for defence of a yes vote go well beyond jobs in shipbuilding. It's becoming clear that the future of London and Edinburgh's defence relations would be at the heart of the separation settlement, the main details of which would have to be negotiated within months, if not weeks, of the referendum.The SNP is proposing the creation of an army, navy and air force from scratch, using assets inherited from existing UK forces. But it is also committed to removing nuclear weapons from Scotland, despite the lack of an operating base in the rest of the UK to which they could be moved. This would have far-reaching implications. Though it would be in the strong interests of both parties to have a close and co-operative relationship post-independence, in the aftermath of a fiercely fought campaign an attempt by Scottish negotiators to force the UK's denuclearisation could poison relations between the countries for years. The UK would hence be much less likely to support Scotland's interests on a wide range of other issues, domestic and international. The risks of economic recession and financial crisis could grow quickly.So it would be vital for Scotland to compromise. A deal on Trident bases could open the way to a wider security settlement \u2013 for example, UK support for Scottish Nato and EU membership.A Trident agreement could also open the way to cross-border co-operation on conventional defence. The RAF could continue to operate air patrols from its Scottish base. The navy's attack submarines could continue their contribution to NATO from their base on the Clyde. And most of the Scottish regiments, whether based in Scotland or England, could remain part of an integrated British army.Within the broader umbrella of this continuing UK presence, the Scottish Defence Force would be able to develop incrementally, focusing its initial efforts on addressing vulnerabilities in areas \u2013 such as cyber defence and countering terrorism and organised crime \u2013 with an immediate need to build new national capabilities.Such an arrangement would minimise the job losses were Scotland to take over (and probably downsize) current bases. Under a wider deal on bases, Scotland's negotiators could also ask London to agree that its defence companies be treated on the same basis as those in the rest of the UK.A more gradual approach to building Scotland's defence capabilities could reduce its security budget, saving as much as \u00a32bn a year from its current notional contribution to the costs of UK defence costs.With or without a special defence relationship, an independent Scotland would remain profoundly dependent on its southern neighbour for security, even while absent when vital decisions are being made.A special defence relationship, however, could reduce inefficiencies and uncertainties that might otherwise result from the separation process. And it might provide some hope to shipbuilding workers on the Clyde.\u2022\u00a0Malcolm Chalmers will be speaking at the Global Security, National Defence, and the Future of Scotland conference at the University of Glasgow, which takes place on Nov 8 and 9", "tags": ["Scotland", "Military", "Defence policy", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland, shipyards and security | Malcolm Chalmers"},{"date": "2013-10-20T20:59:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish National party annual conference that finished in Perth on Sunday had an urgency that was absent from the other party conferences earlier in the autumn. It is not hard to grasp why this should be. While the UK-wide party conferences were centred on the buildup to the May 2015 general election, the SNP is fixated on its date with destiny in next September's independence referendum. In the SNP's world, all roads lead to 18 September 2014 \u2013 and the possibility of defeat in 11 months is not permitted to exist.The SNP's problem, however, is that the possibility of defeat next September is actually extremely real. The message of the Scottish opinion polls is both negative and steady. The most recent poll on independence among Scots who say they are certain to vote next year has 28% opting for independence, 50% for remaining in the UK and 22% still to decide. That is not an irredeemably hopeless position for the nationalist cause. Polls and moods can and do change \u2013 though Scotland's have yet to show evidence of that. But turning things around is certainly a tall order. Those poll figures mean that the yes campaign has to convince every undecided voter between now and next September if the cause of independence is to prevail.If that is to happen, it will require a change of mood at once dynamic and organic. It will probably not be shaped by one big thing that happens overnight. It will require successive missteps by the no campaign and an accumulation of sure-footed momentum by the yes camp. The SNP is a formidable machine and it has opportunities over the coming 11 months to make it happen. Next month's much vaunted white paper on independence will be one of the most important. It will also, as Alistair Darling warned on Sunday, be a huge test of credibility. A backdrop of steady economic recovery would undoubtedly help. But it is not clear that Scottish voters, however much they may like having the SNP in charge of a devolved Scotland, are ready to take the bigger leap into the uncertainties of\u00a0separation.Alex Salmond's speech to his party on Saturday attempted to address this scepticism without explicitly admitting that it exists. In the past, Mr Salmond has done this by blurring the edges of what independence might mean \u2013 Scotland would keep the Queen, the pound, the NHS, a place in Europe and the rest of it. This speech still had some of that slippery pragmatism \u2013 a pledge to retain the Royal Mail in public hands, for instance. In an interview on Sunday, Mr Salmond also appeared open to a less demanding timetable over the future of Trident in Scottish waters.In Perth, however, Mr Salmond and his party have made great play of pushing the SNP's credentials as a governing party that delivers on bread-and-butter issues. The first minister promised to bolster the minimum wage. His cabinet colleagues promised to increase bursaries and loans for students and to cut fuel bills \u2013 something for the middle-class, something for the workers. All this is designed to tell voters that life is increasingly more secure in Scotland while life in the rest of the UK becomes increasingly problematic and unequal under the coalition. The problem is that this dodges most of the difficult taxing and spending questions facing any European country in the modern era.Mr Salmond has no alternative but to push on all fronts and hope that something works. The SNP has to persuade the voters that not much is going to be placed at risk while simultaneously inspiring them to believe that independence would be an historic change for the better. Mr Salmond ended his speech on a more visionary nationalist note \u2013 \"If not us \u2013 then who? If not now \u2013 then when?\" \u2013 than in\u00a0the past.A climactic moment of one sort or another in the national story is certainly on the horizon. But Scots show no sign, yet at least, of being convinced that independence is the overarching and urgent answer to their problems.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: independency culture | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-06T19:32:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish referendum loomed over yesterday's announcement that cuts in shipbuilding jobs are going to be focused on Portsmouth more than on Scotland. If a yard north of the border had been closed, it is all too easy to imagine how this could have played into the Scottish National party's narrative of a London Tory government insensitive to Scottish interests. As it is, the government can point to the decision as evidence of how Scotland benefits from the union.The message is clear. Vote no to independence, and Scotland's shipyards can continue to get new orders from the UK Ministry of Defence, and be in pole position for the construction of the Royal Navy's new frigate later this decade. Vote yes, and the Scottish yards are likely to suffer the same fate as Portsmouth, with thousands of job losses in areas of already high unemployment.But the implications for defence of a yes vote go well beyond jobs in shipbuilding. It's becoming clear that the future of London and Edinburgh's defence relations would be at the heart of the separation settlement, the main details of which would have to be negotiated within months, if not weeks, of the referendum.The SNP is proposing the creation of an army, navy and air force from scratch, using assets inherited from existing UK forces. But it is also committed to removing nuclear weapons from Scotland, despite the lack of an operating base in the rest of the UK to which they could be moved. This would have far-reaching implications. Though it would be in the strong interests of both parties to have a close and co-operative relationship post-independence, in the aftermath of a fiercely fought campaign an attempt by Scottish negotiators to force the UK's denuclearisation could poison relations between the countries for years. The UK would hence be much less likely to support Scotland's interests on a wide range of other issues, domestic and international. The risks of economic recession and financial crisis could grow quickly.So it would be vital for Scotland to compromise. A deal on Trident bases could open the way to a wider security settlement \u2013 for example, UK support for Scottish Nato and EU membership.A Trident agreement could also open the way to cross-border co-operation on conventional defence. The RAF could continue to operate air patrols from its Scottish base. The navy's attack submarines could continue their contribution to NATO from their base on the Clyde. And most of the Scottish regiments, whether based in Scotland or England, could remain part of an integrated British army.Within the broader umbrella of this continuing UK presence, the Scottish Defence Force would be able to develop incrementally, focusing its initial efforts on addressing vulnerabilities in areas \u2013 such as cyber defence and countering terrorism and organised crime \u2013 with an immediate need to build new national capabilities.Such an arrangement would minimise the job losses were Scotland to take over (and probably downsize) current bases. Under a wider deal on bases, Scotland's negotiators could also ask London to agree that its defence companies be treated on the same basis as those in the rest of the UK.A more gradual approach to building Scotland's defence capabilities could reduce its security budget, saving as much as \u00a32bn a year from its current notional contribution to the costs of UK defence costs.With or without a special defence relationship, an independent Scotland would remain profoundly dependent on its southern neighbour for security, even while absent when vital decisions are being made.A special defence relationship, however, could reduce inefficiencies and uncertainties that might otherwise result from the separation process. And it might provide some hope to shipbuilding workers on the Clyde.\u2022\u00a0Malcolm Chalmers will be speaking at the Global Security, National Defence, and the Future of Scotland conference at the University of Glasgow, which takes place on Nov 8 and 9", "tags": ["Scotland", "Military", "Defence policy", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland, shipyards and security | Malcolm Chalmers"},{"date": "2013-10-20T20:59:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish National party annual conference that finished in Perth on Sunday had an urgency that was absent from the other party conferences earlier in the autumn. It is not hard to grasp why this should be. While the UK-wide party conferences were centred on the buildup to the May 2015 general election, the SNP is fixated on its date with destiny in next September's independence referendum. In the SNP's world, all roads lead to 18 September 2014 \u2013 and the possibility of defeat in 11 months is not permitted to exist.The SNP's problem, however, is that the possibility of defeat next September is actually extremely real. The message of the Scottish opinion polls is both negative and steady. The most recent poll on independence among Scots who say they are certain to vote next year has 28% opting for independence, 50% for remaining in the UK and 22% still to decide. That is not an irredeemably hopeless position for the nationalist cause. Polls and moods can and do change \u2013 though Scotland's have yet to show evidence of that. But turning things around is certainly a tall order. Those poll figures mean that the yes campaign has to convince every undecided voter between now and next September if the cause of independence is to prevail.If that is to happen, it will require a change of mood at once dynamic and organic. It will probably not be shaped by one big thing that happens overnight. It will require successive missteps by the no campaign and an accumulation of sure-footed momentum by the yes camp. The SNP is a formidable machine and it has opportunities over the coming 11 months to make it happen. Next month's much vaunted white paper on independence will be one of the most important. It will also, as Alistair Darling warned on Sunday, be a huge test of credibility. A backdrop of steady economic recovery would undoubtedly help. But it is not clear that Scottish voters, however much they may like having the SNP in charge of a devolved Scotland, are ready to take the bigger leap into the uncertainties of\u00a0separation.Alex Salmond's speech to his party on Saturday attempted to address this scepticism without explicitly admitting that it exists. In the past, Mr Salmond has done this by blurring the edges of what independence might mean \u2013 Scotland would keep the Queen, the pound, the NHS, a place in Europe and the rest of it. This speech still had some of that slippery pragmatism \u2013 a pledge to retain the Royal Mail in public hands, for instance. In an interview on Sunday, Mr Salmond also appeared open to a less demanding timetable over the future of Trident in Scottish waters.In Perth, however, Mr Salmond and his party have made great play of pushing the SNP's credentials as a governing party that delivers on bread-and-butter issues. The first minister promised to bolster the minimum wage. His cabinet colleagues promised to increase bursaries and loans for students and to cut fuel bills \u2013 something for the middle-class, something for the workers. All this is designed to tell voters that life is increasingly more secure in Scotland while life in the rest of the UK becomes increasingly problematic and unequal under the coalition. The problem is that this dodges most of the difficult taxing and spending questions facing any European country in the modern era.Mr Salmond has no alternative but to push on all fronts and hope that something works. The SNP has to persuade the voters that not much is going to be placed at risk while simultaneously inspiring them to believe that independence would be an historic change for the better. Mr Salmond ended his speech on a more visionary nationalist note \u2013 \"If not us \u2013 then who? If not now \u2013 then when?\" \u2013 than in\u00a0the past.A climactic moment of one sort or another in the national story is certainly on the horizon. But Scots show no sign, yet at least, of being convinced that independence is the overarching and urgent answer to their problems.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: independency culture | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-29T15:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was 1977 when Tom Nairn spooked the political world with his famous book, The Break-Up of Britain. He predicted Scottish independence, a bit prematurely. But last Tuesday, as Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon launched their government's manifesto for an independent Scotland, ancient Britain's citizens were being offered a break-through as much as a break-up.In itself, the fat policy manual isn't revolutionary. Scotland's Future is a sturdy, sensible, well-written catalogue of aspirations \u2013 all of them achievable with luck and skill. But what's so exhilarating is the flock of many-coloured hopes gathering behind this project, like seabirds in the wake of a working trawler. Scotland's departure from the union could mean all kinds of liberations and reinventions for the islanders who live under the crown.England, above all, could at last disinter its identity and the buried radicalism of its people. Stripped of the \"British\" comfort blanket, the archaism of England's power structure and its monstrous north-south imbalance would become visible and intolerable. And in Scotland itself, there would be a violent climate change in politics as parties ceased to be London's branch offices.Scotland is in many ways a naturally conservative country \u2013 with a small c. A new rightwing movement, freed from association with \"down south\" posh boys and Maggie Thatcher, would find strong support. More significant, there would be an insurrection in the Scottish Labour party. With a fresh leadership committed to using independence for social justice, I'd expect such a party to push the Scottish National party aside and form Scotland's government within a few years.Then there's the factor of opportunism, comically familiar to small countries. I have seen it in Scotland before. When whiffs of independence spice the air, the big Union Jack men talk differently down the telephone at night. \"Of course I can't say this openly, Jimmy, but I want you to know that if it comes to it, I've always been privately\u00a0\u2026\" Lawyers, bankers, union leaders and unionist leaders \u2013 they'll realign in droves \"if it comes to it\". Why not?Much the same applies to the apparently fearsome rebuttals to Salmond's document. On inspection, they are nine parts bluff. What makes cheeky Salmond think an independent Scotland would be allowed to use the pound, or enter the EU, or be admitted to Nato? Well, the answer is another question: \"if it comes to it\", what sort of Scotland do you want as a neighbour? Does London seriously want to force a currency frontier at the border and screw up trade with England's second biggest partner? Does Brussels really want to expel a loyal member and accelerate the EU's disintegration? Does Nato want a new hole on its east Atlantic flank? No, if the Scottish people do vote yes in September (which is still unlikely), healthy opportunism will cobble up solutions to all these problems.Reading Scotland's Future, I couldn't at first account for a faint twinge of melancholy, a recognition. Then it dawned on me. The Scotland being here described \u2013 or proposed \u2013 was the Britain so passionately hoped for by the millions who voted for Tony Blair, back in 1997.After 18 years of Thatcherism, the longing was for a return to fairness and a stronger regulating and redistributing role for the state. What New Labour did with those hopes is another story. But Salmond's \"what sort of Scotland\" is also a moderate, statist social democracy that partners the private sector but is not afraid to \u2013 for example \u2013 renationalise the Royal Mail.The yes camp is wider than the official yes campaign. Around Scotland in recent months, I keep meeting people who would never vote SNP or trust Salmond, but who are painfully admitting that they may have to vote yes. This is because they are appalled at the way the British state is heading, under Tory or Labour: the downward plunge into the barbarism of neoliberal politics, the contempt for public service, the almost monthly advance of privatisation. Wrestling with old loyalties, they may vote for what Ian Jack called \"the lifeboat option\" \u2013 an independent Scotland as the only way to escape that fate.It's a lifeboat the SNP government has\u00a0already launched, using devolution to keep out English \"reforms\" to the NHS or higher education. Gordon Brown\u00a0himself used to argue that the health service and the postwar welfare state were the supreme achievement of\u00a0Great Britain's history. And yet it's only the SNP that has embarked on this astonishing attempt to preserve and\u00a0grow what's left of that achievement in one part of old Ukania. It hurts\u00a0to laugh at some of history's jokes,\u00a0but here's one: in spite of itself, the SNP is the most truly British party in\u00a0these islands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Labour"], "title": "Could an independent Scotland liberate all Britons? | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-06T19:32:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish referendum loomed over yesterday's announcement that cuts in shipbuilding jobs are going to be focused on Portsmouth more than on Scotland. If a yard north of the border had been closed, it is all too easy to imagine how this could have played into the Scottish National party's narrative of a London Tory government insensitive to Scottish interests. As it is, the government can point to the decision as evidence of how Scotland benefits from the union.The message is clear. Vote no to independence, and Scotland's shipyards can continue to get new orders from the UK Ministry of Defence, and be in pole position for the construction of the Royal Navy's new frigate later this decade. Vote yes, and the Scottish yards are likely to suffer the same fate as Portsmouth, with thousands of job losses in areas of already high unemployment.But the implications for defence of a yes vote go well beyond jobs in shipbuilding. It's becoming clear that the future of London and Edinburgh's defence relations would be at the heart of the separation settlement, the main details of which would have to be negotiated within months, if not weeks, of the referendum.The SNP is proposing the creation of an army, navy and air force from scratch, using assets inherited from existing UK forces. But it is also committed to removing nuclear weapons from Scotland, despite the lack of an operating base in the rest of the UK to which they could be moved. This would have far-reaching implications. Though it would be in the strong interests of both parties to have a close and co-operative relationship post-independence, in the aftermath of a fiercely fought campaign an attempt by Scottish negotiators to force the UK's denuclearisation could poison relations between the countries for years. The UK would hence be much less likely to support Scotland's interests on a wide range of other issues, domestic and international. The risks of economic recession and financial crisis could grow quickly.So it would be vital for Scotland to compromise. A deal on Trident bases could open the way to a wider security settlement \u2013 for example, UK support for Scottish Nato and EU membership.A Trident agreement could also open the way to cross-border co-operation on conventional defence. The RAF could continue to operate air patrols from its Scottish base. The navy's attack submarines could continue their contribution to NATO from their base on the Clyde. And most of the Scottish regiments, whether based in Scotland or England, could remain part of an integrated British army.Within the broader umbrella of this continuing UK presence, the Scottish Defence Force would be able to develop incrementally, focusing its initial efforts on addressing vulnerabilities in areas \u2013 such as cyber defence and countering terrorism and organised crime \u2013 with an immediate need to build new national capabilities.Such an arrangement would minimise the job losses were Scotland to take over (and probably downsize) current bases. Under a wider deal on bases, Scotland's negotiators could also ask London to agree that its defence companies be treated on the same basis as those in the rest of the UK.A more gradual approach to building Scotland's defence capabilities could reduce its security budget, saving as much as \u00a32bn a year from its current notional contribution to the costs of UK defence costs.With or without a special defence relationship, an independent Scotland would remain profoundly dependent on its southern neighbour for security, even while absent when vital decisions are being made.A special defence relationship, however, could reduce inefficiencies and uncertainties that might otherwise result from the separation process. And it might provide some hope to shipbuilding workers on the Clyde.\u2022\u00a0Malcolm Chalmers will be speaking at the Global Security, National Defence, and the Future of Scotland conference at the University of Glasgow, which takes place on Nov 8 and 9", "tags": ["Scotland", "Military", "Defence policy", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland, shipyards and security | Malcolm Chalmers"},{"date": "2013-10-20T20:59:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish National party annual conference that finished in Perth on Sunday had an urgency that was absent from the other party conferences earlier in the autumn. It is not hard to grasp why this should be. While the UK-wide party conferences were centred on the buildup to the May 2015 general election, the SNP is fixated on its date with destiny in next September's independence referendum. In the SNP's world, all roads lead to 18 September 2014 \u2013 and the possibility of defeat in 11 months is not permitted to exist.The SNP's problem, however, is that the possibility of defeat next September is actually extremely real. The message of the Scottish opinion polls is both negative and steady. The most recent poll on independence among Scots who say they are certain to vote next year has 28% opting for independence, 50% for remaining in the UK and 22% still to decide. That is not an irredeemably hopeless position for the nationalist cause. Polls and moods can and do change \u2013 though Scotland's have yet to show evidence of that. But turning things around is certainly a tall order. Those poll figures mean that the yes campaign has to convince every undecided voter between now and next September if the cause of independence is to prevail.If that is to happen, it will require a change of mood at once dynamic and organic. It will probably not be shaped by one big thing that happens overnight. It will require successive missteps by the no campaign and an accumulation of sure-footed momentum by the yes camp. The SNP is a formidable machine and it has opportunities over the coming 11 months to make it happen. Next month's much vaunted white paper on independence will be one of the most important. It will also, as Alistair Darling warned on Sunday, be a huge test of credibility. A backdrop of steady economic recovery would undoubtedly help. But it is not clear that Scottish voters, however much they may like having the SNP in charge of a devolved Scotland, are ready to take the bigger leap into the uncertainties of\u00a0separation.Alex Salmond's speech to his party on Saturday attempted to address this scepticism without explicitly admitting that it exists. In the past, Mr Salmond has done this by blurring the edges of what independence might mean \u2013 Scotland would keep the Queen, the pound, the NHS, a place in Europe and the rest of it. This speech still had some of that slippery pragmatism \u2013 a pledge to retain the Royal Mail in public hands, for instance. In an interview on Sunday, Mr Salmond also appeared open to a less demanding timetable over the future of Trident in Scottish waters.In Perth, however, Mr Salmond and his party have made great play of pushing the SNP's credentials as a governing party that delivers on bread-and-butter issues. The first minister promised to bolster the minimum wage. His cabinet colleagues promised to increase bursaries and loans for students and to cut fuel bills \u2013 something for the middle-class, something for the workers. All this is designed to tell voters that life is increasingly more secure in Scotland while life in the rest of the UK becomes increasingly problematic and unequal under the coalition. The problem is that this dodges most of the difficult taxing and spending questions facing any European country in the modern era.Mr Salmond has no alternative but to push on all fronts and hope that something works. The SNP has to persuade the voters that not much is going to be placed at risk while simultaneously inspiring them to believe that independence would be an historic change for the better. Mr Salmond ended his speech on a more visionary nationalist note \u2013 \"If not us \u2013 then who? If not now \u2013 then when?\" \u2013 than in\u00a0the past.A climactic moment of one sort or another in the national story is certainly on the horizon. But Scots show no sign, yet at least, of being convinced that independence is the overarching and urgent answer to their problems.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: independency culture | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-29T15:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was 1977 when Tom Nairn spooked the political world with his famous book, The Break-Up of Britain. He predicted Scottish independence, a bit prematurely. But last Tuesday, as Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon launched their government's manifesto for an independent Scotland, ancient Britain's citizens were being offered a break-through as much as a break-up.In itself, the fat policy manual isn't revolutionary. Scotland's Future is a sturdy, sensible, well-written catalogue of aspirations \u2013 all of them achievable with luck and skill. But what's so exhilarating is the flock of many-coloured hopes gathering behind this project, like seabirds in the wake of a working trawler. Scotland's departure from the union could mean all kinds of liberations and reinventions for the islanders who live under the crown.England, above all, could at last disinter its identity and the buried radicalism of its people. Stripped of the \"British\" comfort blanket, the archaism of England's power structure and its monstrous north-south imbalance would become visible and intolerable. And in Scotland itself, there would be a violent climate change in politics as parties ceased to be London's branch offices.Scotland is in many ways a naturally conservative country \u2013 with a small c. A new rightwing movement, freed from association with \"down south\" posh boys and Maggie Thatcher, would find strong support. More significant, there would be an insurrection in the Scottish Labour party. With a fresh leadership committed to using independence for social justice, I'd expect such a party to push the Scottish National party aside and form Scotland's government within a few years.Then there's the factor of opportunism, comically familiar to small countries. I have seen it in Scotland before. When whiffs of independence spice the air, the big Union Jack men talk differently down the telephone at night. \"Of course I can't say this openly, Jimmy, but I want you to know that if it comes to it, I've always been privately\u00a0\u2026\" Lawyers, bankers, union leaders and unionist leaders \u2013 they'll realign in droves \"if it comes to it\". Why not?Much the same applies to the apparently fearsome rebuttals to Salmond's document. On inspection, they are nine parts bluff. What makes cheeky Salmond think an independent Scotland would be allowed to use the pound, or enter the EU, or be admitted to Nato? Well, the answer is another question: \"if it comes to it\", what sort of Scotland do you want as a neighbour? Does London seriously want to force a currency frontier at the border and screw up trade with England's second biggest partner? Does Brussels really want to expel a loyal member and accelerate the EU's disintegration? Does Nato want a new hole on its east Atlantic flank? No, if the Scottish people do vote yes in September (which is still unlikely), healthy opportunism will cobble up solutions to all these problems.Reading Scotland's Future, I couldn't at first account for a faint twinge of melancholy, a recognition. Then it dawned on me. The Scotland being here described \u2013 or proposed \u2013 was the Britain so passionately hoped for by the millions who voted for Tony Blair, back in 1997.After 18 years of Thatcherism, the longing was for a return to fairness and a stronger regulating and redistributing role for the state. What New Labour did with those hopes is another story. But Salmond's \"what sort of Scotland\" is also a moderate, statist social democracy that partners the private sector but is not afraid to \u2013 for example \u2013 renationalise the Royal Mail.The yes camp is wider than the official yes campaign. Around Scotland in recent months, I keep meeting people who would never vote SNP or trust Salmond, but who are painfully admitting that they may have to vote yes. This is because they are appalled at the way the British state is heading, under Tory or Labour: the downward plunge into the barbarism of neoliberal politics, the contempt for public service, the almost monthly advance of privatisation. Wrestling with old loyalties, they may vote for what Ian Jack called \"the lifeboat option\" \u2013 an independent Scotland as the only way to escape that fate.It's a lifeboat the SNP government has\u00a0already launched, using devolution to keep out English \"reforms\" to the NHS or higher education. Gordon Brown\u00a0himself used to argue that the health service and the postwar welfare state were the supreme achievement of\u00a0Great Britain's history. And yet it's only the SNP that has embarked on this astonishing attempt to preserve and\u00a0grow what's left of that achievement in one part of old Ukania. It hurts\u00a0to laugh at some of history's jokes,\u00a0but here's one: in spite of itself, the SNP is the most truly British party in\u00a0these islands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Labour"], "title": "Could an independent Scotland liberate all Britons? | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2013-11-26T07:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government is promising the most comprehensive blueprint for a new independent country ever published, a 670-page guide to creating a new state that will include a frequently asked questions section with 650 answers.Called Scotland's Future \u2013 Your Guide to an Independent Scotland, and running to 170,000 words in length, its contents have been tightly controlled by first minister Alex Salmond's staff and the civil service to avoid leaks.The white paper will be published online at 10am on Tuesday after a yearlong gestation period. It will be released in in ebook format and in hard copy, with an initial print run of 20,000.Success for the Scottish National party government at next year's independence referendum on 18 September 2014 largely hangs on this document's credibility and coherence.Scottish ministers have said the prospectus will have five sections, running to 10 chapters, divided between its aspirations for the future and its immediate plans for the bedrock issues, such as Scotland's currency, its debt negotiations with the UK and its position on acquiring more than 80% of North Sea oil and gas reserves \u2013 that part it says which lie in Scotland's territorial waters.Those issues are uppermost among the issues the Scottish government believes it must agree with the UK government before declaring independence day on 26 March 2016. Getting rid of Trident nuclear submarines on the river Clyde may be among those immediate goals.Next, it is thought, will come the policy pledges it will make were it to win the first election for an independent Scottish parliament in May 2016 \u2013 those pledges which would take longer to implement.The SNP's central strategy is to target key electoral groups who are either the most likely to back independence or the largely reluctant but necessary to win over: the SNP has mastered this technique, using sophisticated data and surveys to identify specific demographics.In the former category are leftwing, younger voters, small business owners and the urban working class. Women and young mothers, and pensioners fall in the latter.Ministers have already promised to abolish the bedroom tax and there are reports they would abandon the universal credit welfare reform, too. Nicola Sturgeon, the deputy first minister, has promised action on a higher minimum wage and action on child care. Older voters were lured in September with promises of earlier retirement ages, and better-protected pensions.Salmond wants a Scottish corporation tax rate 3% lower than the UK's, and recently promised an independent Scotland would renationalise Royal Mail. Small businesses will win tax breaks. There is likely to be a promise too on a new property tax or local income tax, to replace the outdated council tax system.All these pledges will be expensive and, coupled with the political need to protect free tuition fees and free personal care, Salmond knows that his strategy and honesty on the economy will be central to the guide's credibility.The repeated attacks on his insistence that Scotland and the UK should share the pound, in a formal currency union, and warnings about the decline in oil income from the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the UK government raise substantial questions about the viability of his proposals.The Scottish government needs to find proposals and language able to neutralise or deflect the UK government's highly detailed but specialised attacks on financial policy, pensions, currency and defence in its Scotland Analysis series, written by teams of Whitehall civil servants.And central to that quest for credibility will be the Scottish government's riposte to claims and arguments \u2013 fuelled by European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso \u2013 that it will have to reapply for European Union membership as a new member state, and in so doing \u2013 say some sceptics \u2013 commit to joining the euro or renouncing any claim to a share of the UK's rebates and opt-outs.The document is being deliberately written and structured to make it user-friendly; it is also being crafted to allow Yes Scotland and SNP campaigners to use it as their bible and template for the next 10 month's campaigning.At Yes Scotland's launch in May last year, Salmond said it would be the largest grassroots movement in British political history: he set a target of one million voters for the Yes declaration supporting independence. The last figure for that \u2013 372,103 \u2013 was released in May; he may unveil a new figure today.SNP strategists, who see the mainstream media as largely hostile on independence, are putting immense emphasis on reaching voters directly, though doorstep campaigning, social media, rallies and street stalls.From today, the SNP and Yes Scotland are planning to print and hand out several million leaflets in coming weeks, using the white paper as their source; Better Together, the pro-UK campaign, will be at railway stations, ports and airports from 7am this morning/Tuesday morning handing out their own material, attacking Salmond's economic policies and pushing the case for the UK.They are particularly focusing on the don't knows: those voters the Yes campaign believes are the most likely to switch to them. The polls differ on how many don't knows there are: most average at about 16% but two by TNS-BMRB put that figure as high as 32%. That is a very large number of persuadable voters.Even so, support for independence has consistently hovered at around a third of Scotland's voters, despite months of campaigning by Yes Scotland and battles over policy with the UK government.Professor John Curtice, the elections expert with Strathclyde University and the Scottish Centre for Social Research, says the headline average of the polls puts the yes vote at 32% and the no vote at 49%. Taking out don't knows, leaves the figures at 39% in favour of independence and 61% against.The latest poll by Panelbase for the Sunday Times and Real Radio found the gap between a no and yes vote was just 10%, excluding \"don't knows\", with 45% of those committed voters agreeing with independence.That would leave Salmond needing a modest 5% swing to win.But a far larger superpoll of 10,000 people by the Tory former treasurer Lord Ashcroft conducted between February and May 2012 put the gap at a far greater 71% against and 29% in favour, again excluding don't knows.And the next series of polls could show how successful this white paper has been in lifting the yes vote; its publication will likely energise pro-independence campaigners, giving them the ammunition and impetus to close the gap with no voters. Salmond will be hoping to see the yes vote convincingly and consistently rise above 40% by the New Year.The longer that takes, the steeper the slope his campaign has to climb before next September's referendum.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond", "Trident", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scottish government publishes blueprint for independent Scotland"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-06T19:32:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish referendum loomed over yesterday's announcement that cuts in shipbuilding jobs are going to be focused on Portsmouth more than on Scotland. If a yard north of the border had been closed, it is all too easy to imagine how this could have played into the Scottish National party's narrative of a London Tory government insensitive to Scottish interests. As it is, the government can point to the decision as evidence of how Scotland benefits from the union.The message is clear. Vote no to independence, and Scotland's shipyards can continue to get new orders from the UK Ministry of Defence, and be in pole position for the construction of the Royal Navy's new frigate later this decade. Vote yes, and the Scottish yards are likely to suffer the same fate as Portsmouth, with thousands of job losses in areas of already high unemployment.But the implications for defence of a yes vote go well beyond jobs in shipbuilding. It's becoming clear that the future of London and Edinburgh's defence relations would be at the heart of the separation settlement, the main details of which would have to be negotiated within months, if not weeks, of the referendum.The SNP is proposing the creation of an army, navy and air force from scratch, using assets inherited from existing UK forces. But it is also committed to removing nuclear weapons from Scotland, despite the lack of an operating base in the rest of the UK to which they could be moved. This would have far-reaching implications. Though it would be in the strong interests of both parties to have a close and co-operative relationship post-independence, in the aftermath of a fiercely fought campaign an attempt by Scottish negotiators to force the UK's denuclearisation could poison relations between the countries for years. The UK would hence be much less likely to support Scotland's interests on a wide range of other issues, domestic and international. The risks of economic recession and financial crisis could grow quickly.So it would be vital for Scotland to compromise. A deal on Trident bases could open the way to a wider security settlement \u2013 for example, UK support for Scottish Nato and EU membership.A Trident agreement could also open the way to cross-border co-operation on conventional defence. The RAF could continue to operate air patrols from its Scottish base. The navy's attack submarines could continue their contribution to NATO from their base on the Clyde. And most of the Scottish regiments, whether based in Scotland or England, could remain part of an integrated British army.Within the broader umbrella of this continuing UK presence, the Scottish Defence Force would be able to develop incrementally, focusing its initial efforts on addressing vulnerabilities in areas \u2013 such as cyber defence and countering terrorism and organised crime \u2013 with an immediate need to build new national capabilities.Such an arrangement would minimise the job losses were Scotland to take over (and probably downsize) current bases. Under a wider deal on bases, Scotland's negotiators could also ask London to agree that its defence companies be treated on the same basis as those in the rest of the UK.A more gradual approach to building Scotland's defence capabilities could reduce its security budget, saving as much as \u00a32bn a year from its current notional contribution to the costs of UK defence costs.With or without a special defence relationship, an independent Scotland would remain profoundly dependent on its southern neighbour for security, even while absent when vital decisions are being made.A special defence relationship, however, could reduce inefficiencies and uncertainties that might otherwise result from the separation process. And it might provide some hope to shipbuilding workers on the Clyde.\u2022\u00a0Malcolm Chalmers will be speaking at the Global Security, National Defence, and the Future of Scotland conference at the University of Glasgow, which takes place on Nov 8 and 9", "tags": ["Scotland", "Military", "Defence policy", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland, shipyards and security | Malcolm Chalmers"},{"date": "2013-10-20T20:59:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish National party annual conference that finished in Perth on Sunday had an urgency that was absent from the other party conferences earlier in the autumn. It is not hard to grasp why this should be. While the UK-wide party conferences were centred on the buildup to the May 2015 general election, the SNP is fixated on its date with destiny in next September's independence referendum. In the SNP's world, all roads lead to 18 September 2014 \u2013 and the possibility of defeat in 11 months is not permitted to exist.The SNP's problem, however, is that the possibility of defeat next September is actually extremely real. The message of the Scottish opinion polls is both negative and steady. The most recent poll on independence among Scots who say they are certain to vote next year has 28% opting for independence, 50% for remaining in the UK and 22% still to decide. That is not an irredeemably hopeless position for the nationalist cause. Polls and moods can and do change \u2013 though Scotland's have yet to show evidence of that. But turning things around is certainly a tall order. Those poll figures mean that the yes campaign has to convince every undecided voter between now and next September if the cause of independence is to prevail.If that is to happen, it will require a change of mood at once dynamic and organic. It will probably not be shaped by one big thing that happens overnight. It will require successive missteps by the no campaign and an accumulation of sure-footed momentum by the yes camp. The SNP is a formidable machine and it has opportunities over the coming 11 months to make it happen. Next month's much vaunted white paper on independence will be one of the most important. It will also, as Alistair Darling warned on Sunday, be a huge test of credibility. A backdrop of steady economic recovery would undoubtedly help. But it is not clear that Scottish voters, however much they may like having the SNP in charge of a devolved Scotland, are ready to take the bigger leap into the uncertainties of\u00a0separation.Alex Salmond's speech to his party on Saturday attempted to address this scepticism without explicitly admitting that it exists. In the past, Mr Salmond has done this by blurring the edges of what independence might mean \u2013 Scotland would keep the Queen, the pound, the NHS, a place in Europe and the rest of it. This speech still had some of that slippery pragmatism \u2013 a pledge to retain the Royal Mail in public hands, for instance. In an interview on Sunday, Mr Salmond also appeared open to a less demanding timetable over the future of Trident in Scottish waters.In Perth, however, Mr Salmond and his party have made great play of pushing the SNP's credentials as a governing party that delivers on bread-and-butter issues. The first minister promised to bolster the minimum wage. His cabinet colleagues promised to increase bursaries and loans for students and to cut fuel bills \u2013 something for the middle-class, something for the workers. All this is designed to tell voters that life is increasingly more secure in Scotland while life in the rest of the UK becomes increasingly problematic and unequal under the coalition. The problem is that this dodges most of the difficult taxing and spending questions facing any European country in the modern era.Mr Salmond has no alternative but to push on all fronts and hope that something works. The SNP has to persuade the voters that not much is going to be placed at risk while simultaneously inspiring them to believe that independence would be an historic change for the better. Mr Salmond ended his speech on a more visionary nationalist note \u2013 \"If not us \u2013 then who? If not now \u2013 then when?\" \u2013 than in\u00a0the past.A climactic moment of one sort or another in the national story is certainly on the horizon. But Scots show no sign, yet at least, of being convinced that independence is the overarching and urgent answer to their problems.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: independency culture | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-29T15:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was 1977 when Tom Nairn spooked the political world with his famous book, The Break-Up of Britain. He predicted Scottish independence, a bit prematurely. But last Tuesday, as Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon launched their government's manifesto for an independent Scotland, ancient Britain's citizens were being offered a break-through as much as a break-up.In itself, the fat policy manual isn't revolutionary. Scotland's Future is a sturdy, sensible, well-written catalogue of aspirations \u2013 all of them achievable with luck and skill. But what's so exhilarating is the flock of many-coloured hopes gathering behind this project, like seabirds in the wake of a working trawler. Scotland's departure from the union could mean all kinds of liberations and reinventions for the islanders who live under the crown.England, above all, could at last disinter its identity and the buried radicalism of its people. Stripped of the \"British\" comfort blanket, the archaism of England's power structure and its monstrous north-south imbalance would become visible and intolerable. And in Scotland itself, there would be a violent climate change in politics as parties ceased to be London's branch offices.Scotland is in many ways a naturally conservative country \u2013 with a small c. A new rightwing movement, freed from association with \"down south\" posh boys and Maggie Thatcher, would find strong support. More significant, there would be an insurrection in the Scottish Labour party. With a fresh leadership committed to using independence for social justice, I'd expect such a party to push the Scottish National party aside and form Scotland's government within a few years.Then there's the factor of opportunism, comically familiar to small countries. I have seen it in Scotland before. When whiffs of independence spice the air, the big Union Jack men talk differently down the telephone at night. \"Of course I can't say this openly, Jimmy, but I want you to know that if it comes to it, I've always been privately\u00a0\u2026\" Lawyers, bankers, union leaders and unionist leaders \u2013 they'll realign in droves \"if it comes to it\". Why not?Much the same applies to the apparently fearsome rebuttals to Salmond's document. On inspection, they are nine parts bluff. What makes cheeky Salmond think an independent Scotland would be allowed to use the pound, or enter the EU, or be admitted to Nato? Well, the answer is another question: \"if it comes to it\", what sort of Scotland do you want as a neighbour? Does London seriously want to force a currency frontier at the border and screw up trade with England's second biggest partner? Does Brussels really want to expel a loyal member and accelerate the EU's disintegration? Does Nato want a new hole on its east Atlantic flank? No, if the Scottish people do vote yes in September (which is still unlikely), healthy opportunism will cobble up solutions to all these problems.Reading Scotland's Future, I couldn't at first account for a faint twinge of melancholy, a recognition. Then it dawned on me. The Scotland being here described \u2013 or proposed \u2013 was the Britain so passionately hoped for by the millions who voted for Tony Blair, back in 1997.After 18 years of Thatcherism, the longing was for a return to fairness and a stronger regulating and redistributing role for the state. What New Labour did with those hopes is another story. But Salmond's \"what sort of Scotland\" is also a moderate, statist social democracy that partners the private sector but is not afraid to \u2013 for example \u2013 renationalise the Royal Mail.The yes camp is wider than the official yes campaign. Around Scotland in recent months, I keep meeting people who would never vote SNP or trust Salmond, but who are painfully admitting that they may have to vote yes. This is because they are appalled at the way the British state is heading, under Tory or Labour: the downward plunge into the barbarism of neoliberal politics, the contempt for public service, the almost monthly advance of privatisation. Wrestling with old loyalties, they may vote for what Ian Jack called \"the lifeboat option\" \u2013 an independent Scotland as the only way to escape that fate.It's a lifeboat the SNP government has\u00a0already launched, using devolution to keep out English \"reforms\" to the NHS or higher education. Gordon Brown\u00a0himself used to argue that the health service and the postwar welfare state were the supreme achievement of\u00a0Great Britain's history. And yet it's only the SNP that has embarked on this astonishing attempt to preserve and\u00a0grow what's left of that achievement in one part of old Ukania. It hurts\u00a0to laugh at some of history's jokes,\u00a0but here's one: in spite of itself, the SNP is the most truly British party in\u00a0these islands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Labour"], "title": "Could an independent Scotland liberate all Britons? | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2013-11-26T07:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government is promising the most comprehensive blueprint for a new independent country ever published, a 670-page guide to creating a new state that will include a frequently asked questions section with 650 answers.Called Scotland's Future \u2013 Your Guide to an Independent Scotland, and running to 170,000 words in length, its contents have been tightly controlled by first minister Alex Salmond's staff and the civil service to avoid leaks.The white paper will be published online at 10am on Tuesday after a yearlong gestation period. It will be released in in ebook format and in hard copy, with an initial print run of 20,000.Success for the Scottish National party government at next year's independence referendum on 18 September 2014 largely hangs on this document's credibility and coherence.Scottish ministers have said the prospectus will have five sections, running to 10 chapters, divided between its aspirations for the future and its immediate plans for the bedrock issues, such as Scotland's currency, its debt negotiations with the UK and its position on acquiring more than 80% of North Sea oil and gas reserves \u2013 that part it says which lie in Scotland's territorial waters.Those issues are uppermost among the issues the Scottish government believes it must agree with the UK government before declaring independence day on 26 March 2016. Getting rid of Trident nuclear submarines on the river Clyde may be among those immediate goals.Next, it is thought, will come the policy pledges it will make were it to win the first election for an independent Scottish parliament in May 2016 \u2013 those pledges which would take longer to implement.The SNP's central strategy is to target key electoral groups who are either the most likely to back independence or the largely reluctant but necessary to win over: the SNP has mastered this technique, using sophisticated data and surveys to identify specific demographics.In the former category are leftwing, younger voters, small business owners and the urban working class. Women and young mothers, and pensioners fall in the latter.Ministers have already promised to abolish the bedroom tax and there are reports they would abandon the universal credit welfare reform, too. Nicola Sturgeon, the deputy first minister, has promised action on a higher minimum wage and action on child care. Older voters were lured in September with promises of earlier retirement ages, and better-protected pensions.Salmond wants a Scottish corporation tax rate 3% lower than the UK's, and recently promised an independent Scotland would renationalise Royal Mail. Small businesses will win tax breaks. There is likely to be a promise too on a new property tax or local income tax, to replace the outdated council tax system.All these pledges will be expensive and, coupled with the political need to protect free tuition fees and free personal care, Salmond knows that his strategy and honesty on the economy will be central to the guide's credibility.The repeated attacks on his insistence that Scotland and the UK should share the pound, in a formal currency union, and warnings about the decline in oil income from the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the UK government raise substantial questions about the viability of his proposals.The Scottish government needs to find proposals and language able to neutralise or deflect the UK government's highly detailed but specialised attacks on financial policy, pensions, currency and defence in its Scotland Analysis series, written by teams of Whitehall civil servants.And central to that quest for credibility will be the Scottish government's riposte to claims and arguments \u2013 fuelled by European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso \u2013 that it will have to reapply for European Union membership as a new member state, and in so doing \u2013 say some sceptics \u2013 commit to joining the euro or renouncing any claim to a share of the UK's rebates and opt-outs.The document is being deliberately written and structured to make it user-friendly; it is also being crafted to allow Yes Scotland and SNP campaigners to use it as their bible and template for the next 10 month's campaigning.At Yes Scotland's launch in May last year, Salmond said it would be the largest grassroots movement in British political history: he set a target of one million voters for the Yes declaration supporting independence. The last figure for that \u2013 372,103 \u2013 was released in May; he may unveil a new figure today.SNP strategists, who see the mainstream media as largely hostile on independence, are putting immense emphasis on reaching voters directly, though doorstep campaigning, social media, rallies and street stalls.From today, the SNP and Yes Scotland are planning to print and hand out several million leaflets in coming weeks, using the white paper as their source; Better Together, the pro-UK campaign, will be at railway stations, ports and airports from 7am this morning/Tuesday morning handing out their own material, attacking Salmond's economic policies and pushing the case for the UK.They are particularly focusing on the don't knows: those voters the Yes campaign believes are the most likely to switch to them. The polls differ on how many don't knows there are: most average at about 16% but two by TNS-BMRB put that figure as high as 32%. That is a very large number of persuadable voters.Even so, support for independence has consistently hovered at around a third of Scotland's voters, despite months of campaigning by Yes Scotland and battles over policy with the UK government.Professor John Curtice, the elections expert with Strathclyde University and the Scottish Centre for Social Research, says the headline average of the polls puts the yes vote at 32% and the no vote at 49%. Taking out don't knows, leaves the figures at 39% in favour of independence and 61% against.The latest poll by Panelbase for the Sunday Times and Real Radio found the gap between a no and yes vote was just 10%, excluding \"don't knows\", with 45% of those committed voters agreeing with independence.That would leave Salmond needing a modest 5% swing to win.But a far larger superpoll of 10,000 people by the Tory former treasurer Lord Ashcroft conducted between February and May 2012 put the gap at a far greater 71% against and 29% in favour, again excluding don't knows.And the next series of polls could show how successful this white paper has been in lifting the yes vote; its publication will likely energise pro-independence campaigners, giving them the ammunition and impetus to close the gap with no voters. Salmond will be hoping to see the yes vote convincingly and consistently rise above 40% by the New Year.The longer that takes, the steeper the slope his campaign has to climb before next September's referendum.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond", "Trident", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scottish government publishes blueprint for independent Scotland"},{"date": "2013-11-22T21:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\"Remember you're an upside-down turtle!\" shouts Duncan, who has noticed my kayak wobble perilously as I try to land. The technique may lack dignity \u2013 thrust your backside into the cockpit with legs flailed skywards before completing the manoeuvre with a \"back-to-front\" press-up to bring yourself to a standing position astride the vessel (just do in reverse to get back in) \u2013 but it's a surefire way to avoid a dunking. When afloat, the kayaks are so stable that capsizes are rare. Like flying, it's the take-off and landing that are the most hazardous moments. Slithering around calf deep in seaweed, now ashore, I regret my choice of flimsy neoprene footwear. Next year I'm bringing wellies.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0I'm on a five-day sea-kayaking taster and we're spending the afternoon on Shieldaig, a sea loch on the western Highlands coast, mastering basic navigation skills, in order to prevent us drifting off towards Ireland when we venture further afield. The polite introductions at Inverness railway station have developed into collective camaraderie, peppered with the odd expletive, as we rescue dropped paddles, carry boats off and onto dry land, and struggle with fitting spraydecks over the cockpit \u2013 a feat not unlike stretching a fitted, single-bed sheet onto a king-size mattress.The introductory course is, admittedly, more a watersport version of glamping than a remote expedition. Cafetieres, luxury biscuits and camping stoves are all stowed in hatches for morning coffee breaks, and we return each evening to a cosy bunkhouse by upper Loch Torridon. People who sign up tend to have little, if any, seafaring experience and Duncan explains that several hours on the water, combined with a hot shower at the end of the day, is sufficiently adventurous for most beginners. \u00a0Comforts aside, the meticulous planning that Duncan and his co-guide Lisa put into the daily itinerary means we clock up miles of coastline on seal watch, learning precisely when it's time to drop our skegs. Is that the colloquialism for \"trousers\", someone asks, cheekily. We are even rewarded with a glimpse of Tarka the Otter's descendant basking on driftwood \u2013 a first for many of us.While the heatwave is, of course, a bonus, our guides' enthusiasm is so infectious that a good time would still be likely in the pouring rain. Having changed careers to become outdoor instructors, the pair, who plan to marry in the autumn, show that pipedreams can work out if you are prepared to put in the graft.In only a few days everyone has overcome the nervous-paddler syndrome and feels ready for a Helen Skelton-esque adventure down the Amazon, until two porpoises effortlessly overtake the boats, just to remind us novices how it's done.A line-up of our rainbow-coloured kayaks, with the Cuillin mountain range providing a majestic backdrop, sums up the trip. \"Bet that'll be on your screensavers in the office on Monday morning,\" Duncan says. There is no need for him to point out we've spent the week bobbing about in his.Emma is from LancashireTHE JUDGE, Guardian travel writer Dixe Wills, says: \"I enjoyed the way Emma thrust us straight into the action of her sea-kayaking course. From then on, she captured the essence of the holiday so well that I almost felt I'd been paddling alongside her \u2013 a sure sign of a good piece of travel writing.\"THE PRIZE: A three-night stay for 12 people at the new Mad Dogs & Vintage Vans glamping site in the Wye Valley, which features a collection of four vintage caravans, private compost loos, a communal shower shack and campfire, courtesy of Canopy & Stars (0117 204 7830, canopyandstars.co.uk). The prize includes a cider keg, and a meal for 12 on the second night.Never go back, they say\u2026 but if your roots are in the Trossachs, like Martin Raymond, home has to be worth a second lookWhen I found my teenage smoking den, I realised this wasn't an ordinary weekend break. Going on holiday to the place where you grew up isn't for those of an overly nervous or introspective disposition. Meeting ghosts doesn't always make for a fun trip. But first, obviously, you have to be lucky enough to come from a place you could reasonably want to visit on holiday.Callander in Perthshire, now at the heart of the Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, might lack the louche glamour of Tracey Emin's Margate\u2026 and Bruce Springsteen's Asbury Park it isn't. But there is a common condition attached to growing up in a resort: \"You mean you lived there?\" people would gasp, mystified that these houses weren't just props. Like being from Venice \u2013 sort of.Callander and the Trossachs have been tourist destinations since tourist destinations were invented by Walter Scott. Wordsworth and Keats passed through, a classy start that led to pensioner-affordable bus tours, days out from Glasgow (it's less than an hour) and the area's present incarnation as a national park suitable for mountain biking and nature communing.My partner and I (never take teenagers on a trip to the place you grew up \u2013 ever) camp out in the forest nearby, in a luxurious log cabin. This is as insulated from the frequently dripping trees as a five-star hotel. There's even a hot tub, if you feel like giving the midges a big night out. Midges and rain are as much a part of a Scottish Highland holiday as castles and whisky, but neither are true spoilers.OK, I could be persuaded on the midges, but that's the other drawback of the return of the native \u2013 a lack of patience with the tourist board puff. And yet, as we wander the wet woods and shelter in the fine cafes and restaurants, I start to see the place through the eyes of the day trippers who have kept this place alive in tourism terms for nearly 200 years.Being just at the point where the jaggy Highlands suddenly rear out of the Lowlands helps a lot. It might rain a bit, but relentless sun is over-rated\u2026 just watch the mist lifting out of the narrow glens. Watching it fill back in again is less entrancing, but when the sun re-appears the hills look like something out of your imagination.\u00a0I took it all for granted as an adolescent. I mean, I had to hide in the woods to smoke! Where's the urban edge in that? My old spot was just a short walk from the tartan-shop main street. I couldn't have missed it, what with all the dog-ends lying about (not my tabs, of course). Thirty years on and this slice of my past is still a community resource for the local teenagers.Martin is from Kinross, PerthThe judge says: \"Martin's unusual angle \u2013 going on holiday to the place where he grew up \u2013 is eye-catching. The honesty he displayed about his trip is also heartening, especially when he turned a travel writers' cliche on its head by describing the dispiriting sight of mist filling the glens.\"Janet Rogers enjoys a little piece of heaven on the North York Moors \u2013 for both human and canine guests at a remote innGeorge sat in the corner of the bar, sucking air through the gaps where his teeth used to be. He was consuming large quantities of beer and whisky, named after moorland sheep and birds.\"Them's millionaires,\" he said, nodding in the direction of a group of young men, flush, with four-legged friends and four-wheel drives. I'd seen them that morning, vehicles parked on the cobbled forecourt of the old inn, high in the Yorkshire Dales; men in flat caps and body warmers and woolly socks with tasselled bits at the top, strutting around with guns over their shoulders.A man entered the bar with a dog on a lead. A cacophony of barking broke out. Dogs emerged from under tables and dark corners. Sleeping dogs stirred and joined in the fray.The barking subsided and the dogs settled back, camouflaged on the grey flagstones. This was doggy heaven, I thought; wild moors to roam all day, grouse and rabbits to chase and, at night, lounging in front of log fires. It was human heaven, too.We had travelled from the south to a place with foreign-sounding names like Yockenthwaite and Hubberholme and strange words such as \"grikes\" and \"ginnels\". We thought we were staying in Pateley Bridge but when we arrived and asked for the Crown Inn, the traffic warden shook his head and stared with the vacant gaze of a sheep.I looked again at our instructions and, in small print, just before the name Pateley Bridge, was the word Middlesmoor. That was the clue. We wound round single-track roads, hemmed in by dry-stone walls and climbed to the top of the moors. We were almost 1,000 feet up in a tiny village, where the stone houses seemed to cling to a network of steep paths. From our bedroom window in the old inn, we could look down to valley pastures.Later that afternoon, we ambled in the dale; it was warm and balmy and the sky was speckled with white cloud. We passed through meadows of creamy thistledown floating in the breeze. We skirted a pine forest and returned through a field of black cows.The next day we awoke to a thick mist, the trees and buildings just shadows and beyond them, nothing. The hills, once emerald and lime green, had disappeared under white muslin.We walked in rain among the remains of ancient settlements, parts of walls and piles of stones, everything lying in a mess, no order, just flung down and embedded in the landscape, and claimed by the sheep who wandered through it.We returned to our hill-top inn for dinner. George was still in the corner, supping beer and whisky. The shooting party were celebrating. The dogs were resting. A retriever came up and nudged me. I stroked him and asked his name. \"That there's Riley,\" the publican said. \"This is the life, isn't it?\" I said as I patted him. And I'm sure Riley nodded.Janet is from West Sussex The judge says \"Janet produced a wonderful thumbnail sketch of a trip to Middlesmoor in North Yorkshire. Her piece is evocative and well-observed and comes with a clever and witty final note.\"", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Water sports holidays", "Travel writing competition", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Yorkshire holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "Kayaking in Scotland: readers' writing competition 2013"},{"date": "2013-11-27T00:07:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "According to one overexcited nationalist politician, the Scottish independence white paper that was launched by Alex Salmond in Glasgow yesterday made America's declaration of independence look \"like a Post-it note\". History is likely to see the comparison between the two documents rather less favourably to Mr Salmond, even if Scottish voters decide to cut their ties with the United Kingdom in 10 months' time.The white paper's 170,000 words lack Jeffersonian or even Burnsian phrases. Yet there should be no underestimating the immediate importance of the 650-page document that Mr Salmond and his deputy Nicola Sturgeon released yesterday. The SNP government's offer to Scottish voters is now out there and on the record. It is a big moment for UK politics. The white paper deserves to be studied and assessed by everyone who is interested in the political future of these islands, not just by Scots, before a final verdict on the independence question can be made.The white paper, although fascinating and very detailed in some respects, in fact poses at least as many questions as it supplies answers. In places, it reads like a negotiating position rather than the blueprint which Mr Salmond claims. The reason for this is that many of the largest questions about independence cannot be couched at this stage as clearly defined black and white alternatives.If Scotland votes yes next year, many of these questions would then have to be negotiated between the Scots and the UK government. So the white paper's assertions that an independent Scotland would be part of a currency union with the UK are just that \u2013 assertions. So are the claims that an independent Scotland would be seamlessly able to join the European Union or even Nato. Even with the best will in the world, eventual compromises are likely on all these issues and more. This does not just make the white paper a sometimes unreliable guide to Scotland's future. It also raises the possibility, floated by the Constitution Unit on Tuesday, that voters may need to decide in a second referendum in 2016 whether the final terms are acceptable or not.Similar caution is needed in looking at the white paper's calculus about the economic and fiscal impact of independence. Here the white paper is often tendentious, to put it mildly, relying as it does on best or most advantageous case scenarios for contentious major issues as the share-out of UK assets and debts. For example, the white paper posits a share of UK debt interest payments based not on existing UK GDP but on \"Scotland's historical contribution to the UK public finances\". This historical contribution, however, does not go back beyond the start of the North Sea oil and gas exploitation of the 1970s. Such framing makes it dangerous to rely on some of the white paper's fiscal assumptions, as well as leaving the disturbing findings of the Institute for Fiscal Studies' recent report on Scotland's fiscal options largely unanswered.Looked at in the round, the white paper is in some ways less an argument in favour of Scottish independence than a reassurance that Scottish independence may not have the risk-strewn consequences that the UK government \u2013 and the independent IFS \u2013 suggest. Indeed it is even possible to view the white paper not just as a manifesto about independence but also as a manifesto about retaining some form of lasting social democratic settlement within the constraints of economic globalisation. Mr Salmond himself preferred to call the white paper not a blueprint for independence but a \"blueprint for a fairer country\".That language about fairness attracts many voters in Scotland \u2013 which is of course why Mr Salmond uses it \u2013 as well as voters elsewhere in the UK too. The coming months will test whether Scottish voters have enough confidence that Mr Salmond can deliver on that claim. At this stage the independence case, especially in the light of the IFS's warnings, is unproven. But the issues are momentous for all of us. Let the debate commence.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Alex Salmond"], "title": "Scotland: assertions of independence | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-06T19:32:43Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish referendum loomed over yesterday's announcement that cuts in shipbuilding jobs are going to be focused on Portsmouth more than on Scotland. If a yard north of the border had been closed, it is all too easy to imagine how this could have played into the Scottish National party's narrative of a London Tory government insensitive to Scottish interests. As it is, the government can point to the decision as evidence of how Scotland benefits from the union.The message is clear. Vote no to independence, and Scotland's shipyards can continue to get new orders from the UK Ministry of Defence, and be in pole position for the construction of the Royal Navy's new frigate later this decade. Vote yes, and the Scottish yards are likely to suffer the same fate as Portsmouth, with thousands of job losses in areas of already high unemployment.But the implications for defence of a yes vote go well beyond jobs in shipbuilding. It's becoming clear that the future of London and Edinburgh's defence relations would be at the heart of the separation settlement, the main details of which would have to be negotiated within months, if not weeks, of the referendum.The SNP is proposing the creation of an army, navy and air force from scratch, using assets inherited from existing UK forces. But it is also committed to removing nuclear weapons from Scotland, despite the lack of an operating base in the rest of the UK to which they could be moved. This would have far-reaching implications. Though it would be in the strong interests of both parties to have a close and co-operative relationship post-independence, in the aftermath of a fiercely fought campaign an attempt by Scottish negotiators to force the UK's denuclearisation could poison relations between the countries for years. The UK would hence be much less likely to support Scotland's interests on a wide range of other issues, domestic and international. The risks of economic recession and financial crisis could grow quickly.So it would be vital for Scotland to compromise. A deal on Trident bases could open the way to a wider security settlement \u2013 for example, UK support for Scottish Nato and EU membership.A Trident agreement could also open the way to cross-border co-operation on conventional defence. The RAF could continue to operate air patrols from its Scottish base. The navy's attack submarines could continue their contribution to NATO from their base on the Clyde. And most of the Scottish regiments, whether based in Scotland or England, could remain part of an integrated British army.Within the broader umbrella of this continuing UK presence, the Scottish Defence Force would be able to develop incrementally, focusing its initial efforts on addressing vulnerabilities in areas \u2013 such as cyber defence and countering terrorism and organised crime \u2013 with an immediate need to build new national capabilities.Such an arrangement would minimise the job losses were Scotland to take over (and probably downsize) current bases. Under a wider deal on bases, Scotland's negotiators could also ask London to agree that its defence companies be treated on the same basis as those in the rest of the UK.A more gradual approach to building Scotland's defence capabilities could reduce its security budget, saving as much as \u00a32bn a year from its current notional contribution to the costs of UK defence costs.With or without a special defence relationship, an independent Scotland would remain profoundly dependent on its southern neighbour for security, even while absent when vital decisions are being made.A special defence relationship, however, could reduce inefficiencies and uncertainties that might otherwise result from the separation process. And it might provide some hope to shipbuilding workers on the Clyde.\u2022\u00a0Malcolm Chalmers will be speaking at the Global Security, National Defence, and the Future of Scotland conference at the University of Glasgow, which takes place on Nov 8 and 9", "tags": ["Scotland", "Military", "Defence policy", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland, shipyards and security | Malcolm Chalmers"},{"date": "2013-10-20T20:59:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish National party annual conference that finished in Perth on Sunday had an urgency that was absent from the other party conferences earlier in the autumn. It is not hard to grasp why this should be. While the UK-wide party conferences were centred on the buildup to the May 2015 general election, the SNP is fixated on its date with destiny in next September's independence referendum. In the SNP's world, all roads lead to 18 September 2014 \u2013 and the possibility of defeat in 11 months is not permitted to exist.The SNP's problem, however, is that the possibility of defeat next September is actually extremely real. The message of the Scottish opinion polls is both negative and steady. The most recent poll on independence among Scots who say they are certain to vote next year has 28% opting for independence, 50% for remaining in the UK and 22% still to decide. That is not an irredeemably hopeless position for the nationalist cause. Polls and moods can and do change \u2013 though Scotland's have yet to show evidence of that. But turning things around is certainly a tall order. Those poll figures mean that the yes campaign has to convince every undecided voter between now and next September if the cause of independence is to prevail.If that is to happen, it will require a change of mood at once dynamic and organic. It will probably not be shaped by one big thing that happens overnight. It will require successive missteps by the no campaign and an accumulation of sure-footed momentum by the yes camp. The SNP is a formidable machine and it has opportunities over the coming 11 months to make it happen. Next month's much vaunted white paper on independence will be one of the most important. It will also, as Alistair Darling warned on Sunday, be a huge test of credibility. A backdrop of steady economic recovery would undoubtedly help. But it is not clear that Scottish voters, however much they may like having the SNP in charge of a devolved Scotland, are ready to take the bigger leap into the uncertainties of\u00a0separation.Alex Salmond's speech to his party on Saturday attempted to address this scepticism without explicitly admitting that it exists. In the past, Mr Salmond has done this by blurring the edges of what independence might mean \u2013 Scotland would keep the Queen, the pound, the NHS, a place in Europe and the rest of it. This speech still had some of that slippery pragmatism \u2013 a pledge to retain the Royal Mail in public hands, for instance. In an interview on Sunday, Mr Salmond also appeared open to a less demanding timetable over the future of Trident in Scottish waters.In Perth, however, Mr Salmond and his party have made great play of pushing the SNP's credentials as a governing party that delivers on bread-and-butter issues. The first minister promised to bolster the minimum wage. His cabinet colleagues promised to increase bursaries and loans for students and to cut fuel bills \u2013 something for the middle-class, something for the workers. All this is designed to tell voters that life is increasingly more secure in Scotland while life in the rest of the UK becomes increasingly problematic and unequal under the coalition. The problem is that this dodges most of the difficult taxing and spending questions facing any European country in the modern era.Mr Salmond has no alternative but to push on all fronts and hope that something works. The SNP has to persuade the voters that not much is going to be placed at risk while simultaneously inspiring them to believe that independence would be an historic change for the better. Mr Salmond ended his speech on a more visionary nationalist note \u2013 \"If not us \u2013 then who? If not now \u2013 then when?\" \u2013 than in\u00a0the past.A climactic moment of one sort or another in the national story is certainly on the horizon. But Scots show no sign, yet at least, of being convinced that independence is the overarching and urgent answer to their problems.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: independency culture | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-29T15:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was 1977 when Tom Nairn spooked the political world with his famous book, The Break-Up of Britain. He predicted Scottish independence, a bit prematurely. But last Tuesday, as Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon launched their government's manifesto for an independent Scotland, ancient Britain's citizens were being offered a break-through as much as a break-up.In itself, the fat policy manual isn't revolutionary. Scotland's Future is a sturdy, sensible, well-written catalogue of aspirations \u2013 all of them achievable with luck and skill. But what's so exhilarating is the flock of many-coloured hopes gathering behind this project, like seabirds in the wake of a working trawler. Scotland's departure from the union could mean all kinds of liberations and reinventions for the islanders who live under the crown.England, above all, could at last disinter its identity and the buried radicalism of its people. Stripped of the \"British\" comfort blanket, the archaism of England's power structure and its monstrous north-south imbalance would become visible and intolerable. And in Scotland itself, there would be a violent climate change in politics as parties ceased to be London's branch offices.Scotland is in many ways a naturally conservative country \u2013 with a small c. A new rightwing movement, freed from association with \"down south\" posh boys and Maggie Thatcher, would find strong support. More significant, there would be an insurrection in the Scottish Labour party. With a fresh leadership committed to using independence for social justice, I'd expect such a party to push the Scottish National party aside and form Scotland's government within a few years.Then there's the factor of opportunism, comically familiar to small countries. I have seen it in Scotland before. When whiffs of independence spice the air, the big Union Jack men talk differently down the telephone at night. \"Of course I can't say this openly, Jimmy, but I want you to know that if it comes to it, I've always been privately\u00a0\u2026\" Lawyers, bankers, union leaders and unionist leaders \u2013 they'll realign in droves \"if it comes to it\". Why not?Much the same applies to the apparently fearsome rebuttals to Salmond's document. On inspection, they are nine parts bluff. What makes cheeky Salmond think an independent Scotland would be allowed to use the pound, or enter the EU, or be admitted to Nato? Well, the answer is another question: \"if it comes to it\", what sort of Scotland do you want as a neighbour? Does London seriously want to force a currency frontier at the border and screw up trade with England's second biggest partner? Does Brussels really want to expel a loyal member and accelerate the EU's disintegration? Does Nato want a new hole on its east Atlantic flank? No, if the Scottish people do vote yes in September (which is still unlikely), healthy opportunism will cobble up solutions to all these problems.Reading Scotland's Future, I couldn't at first account for a faint twinge of melancholy, a recognition. Then it dawned on me. The Scotland being here described \u2013 or proposed \u2013 was the Britain so passionately hoped for by the millions who voted for Tony Blair, back in 1997.After 18 years of Thatcherism, the longing was for a return to fairness and a stronger regulating and redistributing role for the state. What New Labour did with those hopes is another story. But Salmond's \"what sort of Scotland\" is also a moderate, statist social democracy that partners the private sector but is not afraid to \u2013 for example \u2013 renationalise the Royal Mail.The yes camp is wider than the official yes campaign. Around Scotland in recent months, I keep meeting people who would never vote SNP or trust Salmond, but who are painfully admitting that they may have to vote yes. This is because they are appalled at the way the British state is heading, under Tory or Labour: the downward plunge into the barbarism of neoliberal politics, the contempt for public service, the almost monthly advance of privatisation. Wrestling with old loyalties, they may vote for what Ian Jack called \"the lifeboat option\" \u2013 an independent Scotland as the only way to escape that fate.It's a lifeboat the SNP government has\u00a0already launched, using devolution to keep out English \"reforms\" to the NHS or higher education. Gordon Brown\u00a0himself used to argue that the health service and the postwar welfare state were the supreme achievement of\u00a0Great Britain's history. And yet it's only the SNP that has embarked on this astonishing attempt to preserve and\u00a0grow what's left of that achievement in one part of old Ukania. It hurts\u00a0to laugh at some of history's jokes,\u00a0but here's one: in spite of itself, the SNP is the most truly British party in\u00a0these islands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Labour"], "title": "Could an independent Scotland liberate all Britons? | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2013-11-26T07:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish government is promising the most comprehensive blueprint for a new independent country ever published, a 670-page guide to creating a new state that will include a frequently asked questions section with 650 answers.Called Scotland's Future \u2013 Your Guide to an Independent Scotland, and running to 170,000 words in length, its contents have been tightly controlled by first minister Alex Salmond's staff and the civil service to avoid leaks.The white paper will be published online at 10am on Tuesday after a yearlong gestation period. It will be released in in ebook format and in hard copy, with an initial print run of 20,000.Success for the Scottish National party government at next year's independence referendum on 18 September 2014 largely hangs on this document's credibility and coherence.Scottish ministers have said the prospectus will have five sections, running to 10 chapters, divided between its aspirations for the future and its immediate plans for the bedrock issues, such as Scotland's currency, its debt negotiations with the UK and its position on acquiring more than 80% of North Sea oil and gas reserves \u2013 that part it says which lie in Scotland's territorial waters.Those issues are uppermost among the issues the Scottish government believes it must agree with the UK government before declaring independence day on 26 March 2016. Getting rid of Trident nuclear submarines on the river Clyde may be among those immediate goals.Next, it is thought, will come the policy pledges it will make were it to win the first election for an independent Scottish parliament in May 2016 \u2013 those pledges which would take longer to implement.The SNP's central strategy is to target key electoral groups who are either the most likely to back independence or the largely reluctant but necessary to win over: the SNP has mastered this technique, using sophisticated data and surveys to identify specific demographics.In the former category are leftwing, younger voters, small business owners and the urban working class. Women and young mothers, and pensioners fall in the latter.Ministers have already promised to abolish the bedroom tax and there are reports they would abandon the universal credit welfare reform, too. Nicola Sturgeon, the deputy first minister, has promised action on a higher minimum wage and action on child care. Older voters were lured in September with promises of earlier retirement ages, and better-protected pensions.Salmond wants a Scottish corporation tax rate 3% lower than the UK's, and recently promised an independent Scotland would renationalise Royal Mail. Small businesses will win tax breaks. There is likely to be a promise too on a new property tax or local income tax, to replace the outdated council tax system.All these pledges will be expensive and, coupled with the political need to protect free tuition fees and free personal care, Salmond knows that his strategy and honesty on the economy will be central to the guide's credibility.The repeated attacks on his insistence that Scotland and the UK should share the pound, in a formal currency union, and warnings about the decline in oil income from the Institute for Fiscal Studies and the UK government raise substantial questions about the viability of his proposals.The Scottish government needs to find proposals and language able to neutralise or deflect the UK government's highly detailed but specialised attacks on financial policy, pensions, currency and defence in its Scotland Analysis series, written by teams of Whitehall civil servants.And central to that quest for credibility will be the Scottish government's riposte to claims and arguments \u2013 fuelled by European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso \u2013 that it will have to reapply for European Union membership as a new member state, and in so doing \u2013 say some sceptics \u2013 commit to joining the euro or renouncing any claim to a share of the UK's rebates and opt-outs.The document is being deliberately written and structured to make it user-friendly; it is also being crafted to allow Yes Scotland and SNP campaigners to use it as their bible and template for the next 10 month's campaigning.At Yes Scotland's launch in May last year, Salmond said it would be the largest grassroots movement in British political history: he set a target of one million voters for the Yes declaration supporting independence. The last figure for that \u2013 372,103 \u2013 was released in May; he may unveil a new figure today.SNP strategists, who see the mainstream media as largely hostile on independence, are putting immense emphasis on reaching voters directly, though doorstep campaigning, social media, rallies and street stalls.From today, the SNP and Yes Scotland are planning to print and hand out several million leaflets in coming weeks, using the white paper as their source; Better Together, the pro-UK campaign, will be at railway stations, ports and airports from 7am this morning/Tuesday morning handing out their own material, attacking Salmond's economic policies and pushing the case for the UK.They are particularly focusing on the don't knows: those voters the Yes campaign believes are the most likely to switch to them. The polls differ on how many don't knows there are: most average at about 16% but two by TNS-BMRB put that figure as high as 32%. That is a very large number of persuadable voters.Even so, support for independence has consistently hovered at around a third of Scotland's voters, despite months of campaigning by Yes Scotland and battles over policy with the UK government.Professor John Curtice, the elections expert with Strathclyde University and the Scottish Centre for Social Research, says the headline average of the polls puts the yes vote at 32% and the no vote at 49%. Taking out don't knows, leaves the figures at 39% in favour of independence and 61% against.The latest poll by Panelbase for the Sunday Times and Real Radio found the gap between a no and yes vote was just 10%, excluding \"don't knows\", with 45% of those committed voters agreeing with independence.That would leave Salmond needing a modest 5% swing to win.But a far larger superpoll of 10,000 people by the Tory former treasurer Lord Ashcroft conducted between February and May 2012 put the gap at a far greater 71% against and 29% in favour, again excluding don't knows.And the next series of polls could show how successful this white paper has been in lifting the yes vote; its publication will likely energise pro-independence campaigners, giving them the ammunition and impetus to close the gap with no voters. Salmond will be hoping to see the yes vote convincingly and consistently rise above 40% by the New Year.The longer that takes, the steeper the slope his campaign has to climb before next September's referendum.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Alex Salmond", "Trident", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scottish government publishes blueprint for independent Scotland"},{"date": "2013-11-22T21:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\"Remember you're an upside-down turtle!\" shouts Duncan, who has noticed my kayak wobble perilously as I try to land. The technique may lack dignity \u2013 thrust your backside into the cockpit with legs flailed skywards before completing the manoeuvre with a \"back-to-front\" press-up to bring yourself to a standing position astride the vessel (just do in reverse to get back in) \u2013 but it's a surefire way to avoid a dunking. When afloat, the kayaks are so stable that capsizes are rare. Like flying, it's the take-off and landing that are the most hazardous moments. Slithering around calf deep in seaweed, now ashore, I regret my choice of flimsy neoprene footwear. Next year I'm bringing wellies.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0I'm on a five-day sea-kayaking taster and we're spending the afternoon on Shieldaig, a sea loch on the western Highlands coast, mastering basic navigation skills, in order to prevent us drifting off towards Ireland when we venture further afield. The polite introductions at Inverness railway station have developed into collective camaraderie, peppered with the odd expletive, as we rescue dropped paddles, carry boats off and onto dry land, and struggle with fitting spraydecks over the cockpit \u2013 a feat not unlike stretching a fitted, single-bed sheet onto a king-size mattress.The introductory course is, admittedly, more a watersport version of glamping than a remote expedition. Cafetieres, luxury biscuits and camping stoves are all stowed in hatches for morning coffee breaks, and we return each evening to a cosy bunkhouse by upper Loch Torridon. People who sign up tend to have little, if any, seafaring experience and Duncan explains that several hours on the water, combined with a hot shower at the end of the day, is sufficiently adventurous for most beginners. \u00a0Comforts aside, the meticulous planning that Duncan and his co-guide Lisa put into the daily itinerary means we clock up miles of coastline on seal watch, learning precisely when it's time to drop our skegs. Is that the colloquialism for \"trousers\", someone asks, cheekily. We are even rewarded with a glimpse of Tarka the Otter's descendant basking on driftwood \u2013 a first for many of us.While the heatwave is, of course, a bonus, our guides' enthusiasm is so infectious that a good time would still be likely in the pouring rain. Having changed careers to become outdoor instructors, the pair, who plan to marry in the autumn, show that pipedreams can work out if you are prepared to put in the graft.In only a few days everyone has overcome the nervous-paddler syndrome and feels ready for a Helen Skelton-esque adventure down the Amazon, until two porpoises effortlessly overtake the boats, just to remind us novices how it's done.A line-up of our rainbow-coloured kayaks, with the Cuillin mountain range providing a majestic backdrop, sums up the trip. \"Bet that'll be on your screensavers in the office on Monday morning,\" Duncan says. There is no need for him to point out we've spent the week bobbing about in his.Emma is from LancashireTHE JUDGE, Guardian travel writer Dixe Wills, says: \"I enjoyed the way Emma thrust us straight into the action of her sea-kayaking course. From then on, she captured the essence of the holiday so well that I almost felt I'd been paddling alongside her \u2013 a sure sign of a good piece of travel writing.\"THE PRIZE: A three-night stay for 12 people at the new Mad Dogs & Vintage Vans glamping site in the Wye Valley, which features a collection of four vintage caravans, private compost loos, a communal shower shack and campfire, courtesy of Canopy & Stars (0117 204 7830, canopyandstars.co.uk). The prize includes a cider keg, and a meal for 12 on the second night.Never go back, they say\u2026 but if your roots are in the Trossachs, like Martin Raymond, home has to be worth a second lookWhen I found my teenage smoking den, I realised this wasn't an ordinary weekend break. Going on holiday to the place where you grew up isn't for those of an overly nervous or introspective disposition. Meeting ghosts doesn't always make for a fun trip. But first, obviously, you have to be lucky enough to come from a place you could reasonably want to visit on holiday.Callander in Perthshire, now at the heart of the Loch Lomond and the Trossachs national park, might lack the louche glamour of Tracey Emin's Margate\u2026 and Bruce Springsteen's Asbury Park it isn't. But there is a common condition attached to growing up in a resort: \"You mean you lived there?\" people would gasp, mystified that these houses weren't just props. Like being from Venice \u2013 sort of.Callander and the Trossachs have been tourist destinations since tourist destinations were invented by Walter Scott. Wordsworth and Keats passed through, a classy start that led to pensioner-affordable bus tours, days out from Glasgow (it's less than an hour) and the area's present incarnation as a national park suitable for mountain biking and nature communing.My partner and I (never take teenagers on a trip to the place you grew up \u2013 ever) camp out in the forest nearby, in a luxurious log cabin. This is as insulated from the frequently dripping trees as a five-star hotel. There's even a hot tub, if you feel like giving the midges a big night out. Midges and rain are as much a part of a Scottish Highland holiday as castles and whisky, but neither are true spoilers.OK, I could be persuaded on the midges, but that's the other drawback of the return of the native \u2013 a lack of patience with the tourist board puff. And yet, as we wander the wet woods and shelter in the fine cafes and restaurants, I start to see the place through the eyes of the day trippers who have kept this place alive in tourism terms for nearly 200 years.Being just at the point where the jaggy Highlands suddenly rear out of the Lowlands helps a lot. It might rain a bit, but relentless sun is over-rated\u2026 just watch the mist lifting out of the narrow glens. Watching it fill back in again is less entrancing, but when the sun re-appears the hills look like something out of your imagination.\u00a0I took it all for granted as an adolescent. I mean, I had to hide in the woods to smoke! Where's the urban edge in that? My old spot was just a short walk from the tartan-shop main street. I couldn't have missed it, what with all the dog-ends lying about (not my tabs, of course). Thirty years on and this slice of my past is still a community resource for the local teenagers.Martin is from Kinross, PerthThe judge says: \"Martin's unusual angle \u2013 going on holiday to the place where he grew up \u2013 is eye-catching. The honesty he displayed about his trip is also heartening, especially when he turned a travel writers' cliche on its head by describing the dispiriting sight of mist filling the glens.\"Janet Rogers enjoys a little piece of heaven on the North York Moors \u2013 for both human and canine guests at a remote innGeorge sat in the corner of the bar, sucking air through the gaps where his teeth used to be. He was consuming large quantities of beer and whisky, named after moorland sheep and birds.\"Them's millionaires,\" he said, nodding in the direction of a group of young men, flush, with four-legged friends and four-wheel drives. I'd seen them that morning, vehicles parked on the cobbled forecourt of the old inn, high in the Yorkshire Dales; men in flat caps and body warmers and woolly socks with tasselled bits at the top, strutting around with guns over their shoulders.A man entered the bar with a dog on a lead. A cacophony of barking broke out. Dogs emerged from under tables and dark corners. Sleeping dogs stirred and joined in the fray.The barking subsided and the dogs settled back, camouflaged on the grey flagstones. This was doggy heaven, I thought; wild moors to roam all day, grouse and rabbits to chase and, at night, lounging in front of log fires. It was human heaven, too.We had travelled from the south to a place with foreign-sounding names like Yockenthwaite and Hubberholme and strange words such as \"grikes\" and \"ginnels\". We thought we were staying in Pateley Bridge but when we arrived and asked for the Crown Inn, the traffic warden shook his head and stared with the vacant gaze of a sheep.I looked again at our instructions and, in small print, just before the name Pateley Bridge, was the word Middlesmoor. That was the clue. We wound round single-track roads, hemmed in by dry-stone walls and climbed to the top of the moors. We were almost 1,000 feet up in a tiny village, where the stone houses seemed to cling to a network of steep paths. From our bedroom window in the old inn, we could look down to valley pastures.Later that afternoon, we ambled in the dale; it was warm and balmy and the sky was speckled with white cloud. We passed through meadows of creamy thistledown floating in the breeze. We skirted a pine forest and returned through a field of black cows.The next day we awoke to a thick mist, the trees and buildings just shadows and beyond them, nothing. The hills, once emerald and lime green, had disappeared under white muslin.We walked in rain among the remains of ancient settlements, parts of walls and piles of stones, everything lying in a mess, no order, just flung down and embedded in the landscape, and claimed by the sheep who wandered through it.We returned to our hill-top inn for dinner. George was still in the corner, supping beer and whisky. The shooting party were celebrating. The dogs were resting. A retriever came up and nudged me. I stroked him and asked his name. \"That there's Riley,\" the publican said. \"This is the life, isn't it?\" I said as I patted him. And I'm sure Riley nodded.Janet is from West Sussex The judge says \"Janet produced a wonderful thumbnail sketch of a trip to Middlesmoor in North Yorkshire. Her piece is evocative and well-observed and comes with a clever and witty final note.\"", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Water sports holidays", "Travel writing competition", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays", "Yorkshire holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "Kayaking in Scotland: readers' writing competition 2013"},{"date": "2013-11-21T21:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Apparently the decision to launch the Scottish government's much-anticipated white paper on independence \u2013 at the Imax in Glasgow next week, rather than at Holyrood \u2013 has infuriated the opposition. Such fury seems to be the default position of the Tory-Liberal-Labour alliance.But whatever their contrived reactions, the 500-page document is seen as both historic and pivotal. It's certainly historic, but pivotal? In this regard it is not the politicians that matter. Alex Salmond knows this, and will be releasing the document in stages over the coming weeks, with plans to have a series of public forums to discuss it. It's a populist and democratic move.Salmond's real target audience is the large swath of \"don't knows\" unconvinced by either side and mesmerised by the daily entreaties of doom (only today Scots were warned they'd never see Doctor Who again after independence), and still sceptical of the Yes campaign.But an event this weekend points to a different source of energy that may yet influence the referendum result. As the Westminster parties shift relentlessly rightwards, a new alternative is emerging. Glasgow is to host the second of the Radical Independence conferences. With the slogan \"another Scotland is possible\", the event quickly sold out \u2013 all the unionist parties combined would struggle to fill a similar venue. According to the organisers, the hope is that independence will be the catalyst for a new type of country. A \"radical independence declaration\" will be read out, rejecting neoliberalism and putting social justice and equality at Scotland's core.This event is part of a wider movement, from the Scottish Common Weal movement \u2013 \"a vision for a better Scotland\" based on the conviction that we will get better outcomes for both society and individuals if we emphasise mutuality and equity rather than conflict and inequality \u2013 to the cultural imagination of the National Collective, which aims to \"imagine a better Scotland\" by bringing together inspirational artists of all forms. Groups such as The Art of Hosting are helping people share and communicate, asking: \"How do we create the conditions for deep, systemic change in Scotland? How can we help the emergence of a new way of living by listening to the voice and spirit of the people?\"A number of books published in the past year pick up these themes, such as Andy Wightman's The Poor Had No Lawyers, a contemporary classic on land ownership, and Lesley Riddoch's Blossom, which explores culture, gender, power and psychology to understand the democratic deficit in Scotland.If the official Yes campaign has to play it safe, these others have no such qualms. They represent a collective longing, a barely expressed desire for participative change. The outpouring of blogs, film and photo projects is another example of this new participatory direction. Alongside these, Women for Independence and Democracy Max are exploring ideas such as citizens' assembly, openness and transparency in information.The white paper only gives formal context to this wider, unfolding movement for change. In this sense, the Yes campaign has already won, because it has created conditions where hundreds of thousands of people are thinking critically about their culture, their governance, power systems and their own future.What's the response from the other side? Like the French chef who can make beefsteak out of a leather glove, Alistair Darling has done well with his Better Together campaign. There was, until now, no need for a mass campaign, a grassroots organisation, nor any need for creative thinking. The message was simple (despite everyday experience from food banks to bedroom tax): \"everything's fine\". It remains the world's first manifesto for mass inertia, the world's shortest political programme, which can be distilled into four tiny, hopelessly limiting letters: \"UK:OK\".Daily reality, and the relentless programme of austerity unionism, suggest otherwise. The tide is turning, and the white paper will help unlock the floodgates of change.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish independence"], "title": "An independent Scotland in every sense | Mike Small"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-30T16:15:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "They don't know whodunnit. But they sure as hell know what he done. By suggesting a post-independence currency union was still on the table, the anonymous coalition mole who spoke to the Guardian on Friday has burrowed deep into the already shaky confidence of Better Together.Deep enough for the Scotland secretary, Alistair Carmichael, the Lib Dems' Dr No, to warn colleagues that the yes campaign was gathering momentum. You know things are serious when John Major is being winkled out to embark on a tartan charm offensive. Not to mention a brigade of northern English MPs being dispatched across the border to tell Scots they love them really. No really.And all to reinvent a no campaign that has thus far much preferred the big stick to anything carrot-shaped. Numerous cabinet ministers have been making day trips to Scotland explaining why everything from the economy to defence will implode without the comfort blanket of the union. And watch out for your pension by the way.Just as Scots await predictions of the killing of the first born, up pops the Master of the Polls, John Curtice, to opine that the self-styled Project Fear has been stirring up more irritation than insecurity.And you have to say that a campaign slogan of \"you're too wee, too poor and too stupid to cope\" never had much going for it in the empathy stakes. What the parade of day-trippers seem to have not quite grasped is that devolution, now 15 years old, is not a destination but\u00a0a process.Over administrations of all political shades, Scotland has already chosen to make radically different policy choices within the parameters of the devolution settlement. State education has not gone down the route of academies and free schools. It has set its face against serial testing of young children. It has made a bid to tailor the product to the child rather than the converse.The Curriculum for Excellence covers children from three to 18 and has four stated aims: to produce successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors. While it has core subjects, it believes in the power of creativity to enhance both teaching and learning. The major arts funding body, Creative Scotland, in tandem with Education Scotland, has produced a Creative Learning Plan whose stakeholders include the General Teaching Council Scotland and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.This chimes with the views of the education secretary, Michael Russell, and culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, who used the annual Talbot Rice lecture last year to extol the potential of the arts as a transformative experience. This\u00a0was\u00a0hard on the heels of Maria Miller's Westminster speech advising the cultural sector in England that it had\u00a0to pay its way to survive.The NHS in Scotland makes minimal use of private provision. The flagship Golden Jubilee hospital near Glasgow, originally built by Health Care International for use by wealthy overseas patients, was bought by the Scottish government as an NHS facility 12 years ago. It is now the main centre of excellence for heart and lung surgery and an acknowledged world leader in orthopaedics. It performed 30,000 procedures in its first year. By its tenth it\u00a0was doing 300,000.Scotland still suffers from enormous health inequalities and higher than average mortality rates related to alcohol and drug abuse and poor diet, which rose from the 1980s onwards. However, NHS Scotland's five-year strategy is aimed at reducing these through prevention focusing on tackling child poverty and youth unemployment.The political parties in Scotland can still give sack-bound ferrets a run for their money on many topics, but they are as one on items such as the much-loathed bedroom tax, which all the major parties have pledged to ditch.There is broad agreement on migration too. Scotland wants more migrants to populate its more remote regions, and harness the skills and talents of foreign graduates. Ukip barely registers on voting intentions.All of which gives Better Together a slightly historical ring in a country that has long since grown apart from the world according to Westminster.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland is already another country | Ruth Wishart"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-30T16:15:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "They don't know whodunnit. But they sure as hell know what he done. By suggesting a post-independence currency union was still on the table, the anonymous coalition mole who spoke to the Guardian on Friday has burrowed deep into the already shaky confidence of Better Together.Deep enough for the Scotland secretary, Alistair Carmichael, the Lib Dems' Dr No, to warn colleagues that the yes campaign was gathering momentum. You know things are serious when John Major is being winkled out to embark on a tartan charm offensive. Not to mention a brigade of northern English MPs being dispatched across the border to tell Scots they love them really. No really.And all to reinvent a no campaign that has thus far much preferred the big stick to anything carrot-shaped. Numerous cabinet ministers have been making day trips to Scotland explaining why everything from the economy to defence will implode without the comfort blanket of the union. And watch out for your pension by the way.Just as Scots await predictions of the killing of the first born, up pops the Master of the Polls, John Curtice, to opine that the self-styled Project Fear has been stirring up more irritation than insecurity.And you have to say that a campaign slogan of \"you're too wee, too poor and too stupid to cope\" never had much going for it in the empathy stakes. What the parade of day-trippers seem to have not quite grasped is that devolution, now 15 years old, is not a destination but\u00a0a process.Over administrations of all political shades, Scotland has already chosen to make radically different policy choices within the parameters of the devolution settlement. State education has not gone down the route of academies and free schools. It has set its face against serial testing of young children. It has made a bid to tailor the product to the child rather than the converse.The Curriculum for Excellence covers children from three to 18 and has four stated aims: to produce successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors. While it has core subjects, it believes in the power of creativity to enhance both teaching and learning. The major arts funding body, Creative Scotland, in tandem with Education Scotland, has produced a Creative Learning Plan whose stakeholders include the General Teaching Council Scotland and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.This chimes with the views of the education secretary, Michael Russell, and culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, who used the annual Talbot Rice lecture last year to extol the potential of the arts as a transformative experience. This\u00a0was\u00a0hard on the heels of Maria Miller's Westminster speech advising the cultural sector in England that it had\u00a0to pay its way to survive.The NHS in Scotland makes minimal use of private provision. The flagship Golden Jubilee hospital near Glasgow, originally built by Health Care International for use by wealthy overseas patients, was bought by the Scottish government as an NHS facility 12 years ago. It is now the main centre of excellence for heart and lung surgery and an acknowledged world leader in orthopaedics. It performed 30,000 procedures in its first year. By its tenth it\u00a0was doing 300,000.Scotland still suffers from enormous health inequalities and higher than average mortality rates related to alcohol and drug abuse and poor diet, which rose from the 1980s onwards. However, NHS Scotland's five-year strategy is aimed at reducing these through prevention focusing on tackling child poverty and youth unemployment.The political parties in Scotland can still give sack-bound ferrets a run for their money on many topics, but they are as one on items such as the much-loathed bedroom tax, which all the major parties have pledged to ditch.There is broad agreement on migration too. Scotland wants more migrants to populate its more remote regions, and harness the skills and talents of foreign graduates. Ukip barely registers on voting intentions.All of which gives Better Together a slightly historical ring in a country that has long since grown apart from the world according to Westminster.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland is already another country | Ruth Wishart"},{"date": "2014-01-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's Better Together campaign may be well ahead in the polls, but it is under fire from critics who say its message of doom and gloom is failing to inspire even the most ardent unionist with a positive vision of the country's future inside the UK. In contrast, the alternative destinies being mooted by the campaign for an independent Scotland are vivid and appealing. They include the recurring theme of a Scandinavian Scotland, a small independent state not only emulating the social-democratic welfare models of its Nordic neighbours, but actually joining the institutions that Europe's so-called Nordic tier share among themselves.This a prospect championed by the likes of the SNP's defence spokesman Angus Robertson, who argues that Scotland could join the Nordic Council if it left the UK. \"Given that Scotland is a northern European country with the Atlantic to our west, the Iceland gap to our north and the North Sea to our east, we should take responsibility for the environmental and defence challenges we face there \u2026 But Scotland needs the full toolbox that independence brings to do it.\"If Scotland did knock at the\u00a0Nordic door, would anyone answer? Judging by my interviews with campaigners and activists from Sweden and Norway, they would have one ally, at least, in Swedish activist Gunnar Wetterberg: \"If the Scots phoned we'd be overjoyed!\" he said.But then Wetterberg also champions a\u00a0Nordic union in which Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland abandon their own independence and lock themselves together to form a single federal state that would be\u00a0wealthy enough to take a seat\u00a0at\u00a0the G7. That idea does not\u00a0command much mainstream support.For the most part, the Nordics are content as they are, and they\u00a0have a lot to be content about \u2013 an enviable club of small independent states each flying its own flag (happily \"going it alone\", in the parlance of the Scottish independence debate), with dynamic wealth-creating economies, egalitarian societies, and high taxes that pay for strong welfare provision. Would small-nation solidarity reach across the\u00a0North Sea to welcome a Caledonian cousin?Political scientist Oivind Bratberg spoke for many when he\u00a0told me, disappointingly for Scotland's Yes camp: \"Norwegians are very fond of the\u00a0idea of Britain. They look back at the war with loyalty towards London, where our government and our royal family were located. It's very difficult to conceive of Scotland as detached from the UK.\"Even the redoubtable Scottish broadcaster and campaigner Lesley Riddoch, a fierce champion of a Scotland remodelled on a Scandinavian template, has her doubts. \"I feel at home [in the Nordic countries],\" she says. \"You see aspects of Scottish society played out there that are latent or\u00a0struggling in Scotland itself.\" She is a frequent visitor to our northern neighbours. Do they care about Scotland's referendum? Are we on their radar? Scarcely at all, she concedes.\u2022 Does Scandinavia Want Scotland? BBC Radio 4, Monday at 8pm\u2022 This article amended on 27 January 2014. The Iceland gap is to the north of Scotland, not the south. This article was further amended on 28 January 2014 because Gunnar Wetterberg is Swedish, not Norwegian as the original said.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Norway", "Europe", "World news", "Sweden", "Denmark", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Would the Scandinavians want Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-30T16:15:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "They don't know whodunnit. But they sure as hell know what he done. By suggesting a post-independence currency union was still on the table, the anonymous coalition mole who spoke to the Guardian on Friday has burrowed deep into the already shaky confidence of Better Together.Deep enough for the Scotland secretary, Alistair Carmichael, the Lib Dems' Dr No, to warn colleagues that the yes campaign was gathering momentum. You know things are serious when John Major is being winkled out to embark on a tartan charm offensive. Not to mention a brigade of northern English MPs being dispatched across the border to tell Scots they love them really. No really.And all to reinvent a no campaign that has thus far much preferred the big stick to anything carrot-shaped. Numerous cabinet ministers have been making day trips to Scotland explaining why everything from the economy to defence will implode without the comfort blanket of the union. And watch out for your pension by the way.Just as Scots await predictions of the killing of the first born, up pops the Master of the Polls, John Curtice, to opine that the self-styled Project Fear has been stirring up more irritation than insecurity.And you have to say that a campaign slogan of \"you're too wee, too poor and too stupid to cope\" never had much going for it in the empathy stakes. What the parade of day-trippers seem to have not quite grasped is that devolution, now 15 years old, is not a destination but\u00a0a process.Over administrations of all political shades, Scotland has already chosen to make radically different policy choices within the parameters of the devolution settlement. State education has not gone down the route of academies and free schools. It has set its face against serial testing of young children. It has made a bid to tailor the product to the child rather than the converse.The Curriculum for Excellence covers children from three to 18 and has four stated aims: to produce successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors. While it has core subjects, it believes in the power of creativity to enhance both teaching and learning. The major arts funding body, Creative Scotland, in tandem with Education Scotland, has produced a Creative Learning Plan whose stakeholders include the General Teaching Council Scotland and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.This chimes with the views of the education secretary, Michael Russell, and culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, who used the annual Talbot Rice lecture last year to extol the potential of the arts as a transformative experience. This\u00a0was\u00a0hard on the heels of Maria Miller's Westminster speech advising the cultural sector in England that it had\u00a0to pay its way to survive.The NHS in Scotland makes minimal use of private provision. The flagship Golden Jubilee hospital near Glasgow, originally built by Health Care International for use by wealthy overseas patients, was bought by the Scottish government as an NHS facility 12 years ago. It is now the main centre of excellence for heart and lung surgery and an acknowledged world leader in orthopaedics. It performed 30,000 procedures in its first year. By its tenth it\u00a0was doing 300,000.Scotland still suffers from enormous health inequalities and higher than average mortality rates related to alcohol and drug abuse and poor diet, which rose from the 1980s onwards. However, NHS Scotland's five-year strategy is aimed at reducing these through prevention focusing on tackling child poverty and youth unemployment.The political parties in Scotland can still give sack-bound ferrets a run for their money on many topics, but they are as one on items such as the much-loathed bedroom tax, which all the major parties have pledged to ditch.There is broad agreement on migration too. Scotland wants more migrants to populate its more remote regions, and harness the skills and talents of foreign graduates. Ukip barely registers on voting intentions.All of which gives Better Together a slightly historical ring in a country that has long since grown apart from the world according to Westminster.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland is already another country | Ruth Wishart"},{"date": "2014-01-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's Better Together campaign may be well ahead in the polls, but it is under fire from critics who say its message of doom and gloom is failing to inspire even the most ardent unionist with a positive vision of the country's future inside the UK. In contrast, the alternative destinies being mooted by the campaign for an independent Scotland are vivid and appealing. They include the recurring theme of a Scandinavian Scotland, a small independent state not only emulating the social-democratic welfare models of its Nordic neighbours, but actually joining the institutions that Europe's so-called Nordic tier share among themselves.This a prospect championed by the likes of the SNP's defence spokesman Angus Robertson, who argues that Scotland could join the Nordic Council if it left the UK. \"Given that Scotland is a northern European country with the Atlantic to our west, the Iceland gap to our north and the North Sea to our east, we should take responsibility for the environmental and defence challenges we face there \u2026 But Scotland needs the full toolbox that independence brings to do it.\"If Scotland did knock at the\u00a0Nordic door, would anyone answer? Judging by my interviews with campaigners and activists from Sweden and Norway, they would have one ally, at least, in Swedish activist Gunnar Wetterberg: \"If the Scots phoned we'd be overjoyed!\" he said.But then Wetterberg also champions a\u00a0Nordic union in which Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland abandon their own independence and lock themselves together to form a single federal state that would be\u00a0wealthy enough to take a seat\u00a0at\u00a0the G7. That idea does not\u00a0command much mainstream support.For the most part, the Nordics are content as they are, and they\u00a0have a lot to be content about \u2013 an enviable club of small independent states each flying its own flag (happily \"going it alone\", in the parlance of the Scottish independence debate), with dynamic wealth-creating economies, egalitarian societies, and high taxes that pay for strong welfare provision. Would small-nation solidarity reach across the\u00a0North Sea to welcome a Caledonian cousin?Political scientist Oivind Bratberg spoke for many when he\u00a0told me, disappointingly for Scotland's Yes camp: \"Norwegians are very fond of the\u00a0idea of Britain. They look back at the war with loyalty towards London, where our government and our royal family were located. It's very difficult to conceive of Scotland as detached from the UK.\"Even the redoubtable Scottish broadcaster and campaigner Lesley Riddoch, a fierce champion of a Scotland remodelled on a Scandinavian template, has her doubts. \"I feel at home [in the Nordic countries],\" she says. \"You see aspects of Scottish society played out there that are latent or\u00a0struggling in Scotland itself.\" She is a frequent visitor to our northern neighbours. Do they care about Scotland's referendum? Are we on their radar? Scarcely at all, she concedes.\u2022 Does Scandinavia Want Scotland? BBC Radio 4, Monday at 8pm\u2022 This article amended on 27 January 2014. The Iceland gap is to the north of Scotland, not the south. This article was further amended on 28 January 2014 because Gunnar Wetterberg is Swedish, not Norwegian as the original said.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Norway", "Europe", "World news", "Sweden", "Denmark", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Would the Scandinavians want Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-03-09T05:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The most uplifting and affirmative action I've seen this year occurred in distressing circumstances in Glasgow's Sauchiehall Street. The event was filmed by BBC Scotland for their series, The Street, chronicling the reality of life on Scotland's liveliest boulevard. In it we see Melo, a young African street musician, being racially abused by two white thugs. After one of the men approached him for the purposes of calling him a \"black bastard\", this is what we subsequently heard:\"What about the fucking British or the homeless? You are taking the fucking piss. You are milking our country for thousands, ya fucking black bastard.\"How much do you make sitting here busking every fucking day? You're making thousands. I pay taxes every fucking month; hundreds of pounds to keep you in the fucking country.\"You are a black bastard, admit it.\"One of the white gargoyles then attempts to assault him. Melo, though, was having none of it and began rebuking his assailants while defending himself with a small trolley he had been using as a prop. Melo, who looks like a chap with substantial reserves of character and courage, decides he might as well go down fighting. \"Get away from me,\" he tells them. \"Any more and I will batter you both to the floor.\" It's thought that Melo had come to live in Glasgow after fleeing from the civil war in Angola, his home country.For generations now, we Scots have congratulated ourselves that we don't have a racial problem on anything like the scale that exists in parts of England. It's a complacent attitude and one that has been blown apart since the start of this year. For there have been several other incidents reported in the press and television that have been as sickening as the attack on Melo. Two weeks ago a 17-year-old schoolboy making his debut in senior football had to be substituted when he became distressed at the abuse he was receiving from some supporters of Peterhead FC in the north east of Scotland.On another occasion, Humza Yousaf, a young Asian MSP at Holyrood was subjected, in daylight, to a violent and racist tirade while selling the Big Issue. He had agreed to do this to raise awareness of issues surrounding homeless people in Scotland.Few would suggest that these incidents mean that Scotland suddenly has a problem with racism. Yet we ought also to acknowledge that for each of these that were reported and recorded there will be dozens more that go unchronicled. Nor would it be wise to oversimplify the reasons why we are witnessing these bubbles on the surface of the cesspit. Yet it seems to me to be inescapable that some of these reasons are similar to those that we encounter when trying to explain the relatively sudden rise of a party like Ukip in Britain.This is a party which, in the absence of any coherent economic, social or cultural policy, has become a significant power in England and Wales on the back of one of the most wicked deceptions ever practised on our southern neighbours: that immigration is intrinsically bad, that indolent people from \"undesirable\" countries (eastern Europe and most of Africa) are taking white Anglo-Saxon jobs, and that they are placing an unsustainable burden on the NHS and our system of benefits.This has combined with a rise in anti-Muslim sentiment fuelled by tragic events such as the slaying of Private Lee Rigby. Rapidly, it seems, a residual fear and distrust of Islam, which had always lurked on the periphery of what we could call outright racism, has entered the mainstream. And it has done so as large elements of British society have begun to express themselves in distorted and strident militarism. In this, the humble poppy has also become a casualty. Once it was a silent and lovely memoriam to noble sacrifice, now it is used by our political and military elite to engender a sense of triumphalism. Not to be seen sporting a poppy in the month of November is to risk being accused of treason.Much of this may be justified when Britain is facing mortal peril. But, in the absence of such, too many of us begin to look for an enemy within. Those who are other and different and puzzling become easy targets, especially those who are foolish enough to look content and prosperous. How dare they?And now it seems that some of the tendrils of this creeping disease have reached Scotland. Well, we had better start to look aboot us, because these have the capacity to poison us. And we had better also start being loud and aggressive with the opposite message: Scotland needs more immigration. If we still think that old age deserves choice and quality of life then some facts must be faced. Britain has an ageing population and Scotland's is ageing more rapidly than that of the rest of the UK. We need another one million immigrants in this country paying taxes and national insurance as well as purchasing goods and services. This they tend to do and they tend not to get as sick and depressed as the rest of us. Happily, the SNP is the world's only nationalist party which actually welcomes immigration. The Scottish Labour party, when it governed, enshrined this, too.It's good to walk down the streets of your city and behold the sights and sounds and smells of different people from far away countries. How can that ever be bad?In England in the 16th century, in a time considered to be more inhumane and uncivilised, the words of William Shakespeare (from Sir Thomas More) resonate still:\"Imagine that you see the wretched strangers,Their babies at the backs, and their poor luggagePlodding to th' ports and coast for transportation[...]Should so much come too short of your great trespassAs but to banish you: whither would you go?What country, by the nature of your error,Should give you harbour?[...]Why you must needs be strangers. Would you be pleasedTo find a nation of such barbarous temperThat breaking out into hideous violenceWould not afford you an abode on earth,Whet their detested knives against your throats,Spurn you like dogs[? ...][...] This is the strangers' caseAnd this your mountainish inhumanity.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Immigration and asylum", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "UK news", "Glasgow", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Politics", "UK Independence party (Ukip)"], "title": "We need more immigration in Scotland | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-30T16:15:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "They don't know whodunnit. But they sure as hell know what he done. By suggesting a post-independence currency union was still on the table, the anonymous coalition mole who spoke to the Guardian on Friday has burrowed deep into the already shaky confidence of Better Together.Deep enough for the Scotland secretary, Alistair Carmichael, the Lib Dems' Dr No, to warn colleagues that the yes campaign was gathering momentum. You know things are serious when John Major is being winkled out to embark on a tartan charm offensive. Not to mention a brigade of northern English MPs being dispatched across the border to tell Scots they love them really. No really.And all to reinvent a no campaign that has thus far much preferred the big stick to anything carrot-shaped. Numerous cabinet ministers have been making day trips to Scotland explaining why everything from the economy to defence will implode without the comfort blanket of the union. And watch out for your pension by the way.Just as Scots await predictions of the killing of the first born, up pops the Master of the Polls, John Curtice, to opine that the self-styled Project Fear has been stirring up more irritation than insecurity.And you have to say that a campaign slogan of \"you're too wee, too poor and too stupid to cope\" never had much going for it in the empathy stakes. What the parade of day-trippers seem to have not quite grasped is that devolution, now 15 years old, is not a destination but\u00a0a process.Over administrations of all political shades, Scotland has already chosen to make radically different policy choices within the parameters of the devolution settlement. State education has not gone down the route of academies and free schools. It has set its face against serial testing of young children. It has made a bid to tailor the product to the child rather than the converse.The Curriculum for Excellence covers children from three to 18 and has four stated aims: to produce successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors. While it has core subjects, it believes in the power of creativity to enhance both teaching and learning. The major arts funding body, Creative Scotland, in tandem with Education Scotland, has produced a Creative Learning Plan whose stakeholders include the General Teaching Council Scotland and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.This chimes with the views of the education secretary, Michael Russell, and culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, who used the annual Talbot Rice lecture last year to extol the potential of the arts as a transformative experience. This\u00a0was\u00a0hard on the heels of Maria Miller's Westminster speech advising the cultural sector in England that it had\u00a0to pay its way to survive.The NHS in Scotland makes minimal use of private provision. The flagship Golden Jubilee hospital near Glasgow, originally built by Health Care International for use by wealthy overseas patients, was bought by the Scottish government as an NHS facility 12 years ago. It is now the main centre of excellence for heart and lung surgery and an acknowledged world leader in orthopaedics. It performed 30,000 procedures in its first year. By its tenth it\u00a0was doing 300,000.Scotland still suffers from enormous health inequalities and higher than average mortality rates related to alcohol and drug abuse and poor diet, which rose from the 1980s onwards. However, NHS Scotland's five-year strategy is aimed at reducing these through prevention focusing on tackling child poverty and youth unemployment.The political parties in Scotland can still give sack-bound ferrets a run for their money on many topics, but they are as one on items such as the much-loathed bedroom tax, which all the major parties have pledged to ditch.There is broad agreement on migration too. Scotland wants more migrants to populate its more remote regions, and harness the skills and talents of foreign graduates. Ukip barely registers on voting intentions.All of which gives Better Together a slightly historical ring in a country that has long since grown apart from the world according to Westminster.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland is already another country | Ruth Wishart"},{"date": "2014-01-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's Better Together campaign may be well ahead in the polls, but it is under fire from critics who say its message of doom and gloom is failing to inspire even the most ardent unionist with a positive vision of the country's future inside the UK. In contrast, the alternative destinies being mooted by the campaign for an independent Scotland are vivid and appealing. They include the recurring theme of a Scandinavian Scotland, a small independent state not only emulating the social-democratic welfare models of its Nordic neighbours, but actually joining the institutions that Europe's so-called Nordic tier share among themselves.This a prospect championed by the likes of the SNP's defence spokesman Angus Robertson, who argues that Scotland could join the Nordic Council if it left the UK. \"Given that Scotland is a northern European country with the Atlantic to our west, the Iceland gap to our north and the North Sea to our east, we should take responsibility for the environmental and defence challenges we face there \u2026 But Scotland needs the full toolbox that independence brings to do it.\"If Scotland did knock at the\u00a0Nordic door, would anyone answer? Judging by my interviews with campaigners and activists from Sweden and Norway, they would have one ally, at least, in Swedish activist Gunnar Wetterberg: \"If the Scots phoned we'd be overjoyed!\" he said.But then Wetterberg also champions a\u00a0Nordic union in which Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland abandon their own independence and lock themselves together to form a single federal state that would be\u00a0wealthy enough to take a seat\u00a0at\u00a0the G7. That idea does not\u00a0command much mainstream support.For the most part, the Nordics are content as they are, and they\u00a0have a lot to be content about \u2013 an enviable club of small independent states each flying its own flag (happily \"going it alone\", in the parlance of the Scottish independence debate), with dynamic wealth-creating economies, egalitarian societies, and high taxes that pay for strong welfare provision. Would small-nation solidarity reach across the\u00a0North Sea to welcome a Caledonian cousin?Political scientist Oivind Bratberg spoke for many when he\u00a0told me, disappointingly for Scotland's Yes camp: \"Norwegians are very fond of the\u00a0idea of Britain. They look back at the war with loyalty towards London, where our government and our royal family were located. It's very difficult to conceive of Scotland as detached from the UK.\"Even the redoubtable Scottish broadcaster and campaigner Lesley Riddoch, a fierce champion of a Scotland remodelled on a Scandinavian template, has her doubts. \"I feel at home [in the Nordic countries],\" she says. \"You see aspects of Scottish society played out there that are latent or\u00a0struggling in Scotland itself.\" She is a frequent visitor to our northern neighbours. Do they care about Scotland's referendum? Are we on their radar? Scarcely at all, she concedes.\u2022 Does Scandinavia Want Scotland? BBC Radio 4, Monday at 8pm\u2022 This article amended on 27 January 2014. The Iceland gap is to the north of Scotland, not the south. This article was further amended on 28 January 2014 because Gunnar Wetterberg is Swedish, not Norwegian as the original said.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Norway", "Europe", "World news", "Sweden", "Denmark", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Would the Scandinavians want Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-03-09T05:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The most uplifting and affirmative action I've seen this year occurred in distressing circumstances in Glasgow's Sauchiehall Street. The event was filmed by BBC Scotland for their series, The Street, chronicling the reality of life on Scotland's liveliest boulevard. In it we see Melo, a young African street musician, being racially abused by two white thugs. After one of the men approached him for the purposes of calling him a \"black bastard\", this is what we subsequently heard:\"What about the fucking British or the homeless? You are taking the fucking piss. You are milking our country for thousands, ya fucking black bastard.\"How much do you make sitting here busking every fucking day? You're making thousands. I pay taxes every fucking month; hundreds of pounds to keep you in the fucking country.\"You are a black bastard, admit it.\"One of the white gargoyles then attempts to assault him. Melo, though, was having none of it and began rebuking his assailants while defending himself with a small trolley he had been using as a prop. Melo, who looks like a chap with substantial reserves of character and courage, decides he might as well go down fighting. \"Get away from me,\" he tells them. \"Any more and I will batter you both to the floor.\" It's thought that Melo had come to live in Glasgow after fleeing from the civil war in Angola, his home country.For generations now, we Scots have congratulated ourselves that we don't have a racial problem on anything like the scale that exists in parts of England. It's a complacent attitude and one that has been blown apart since the start of this year. For there have been several other incidents reported in the press and television that have been as sickening as the attack on Melo. Two weeks ago a 17-year-old schoolboy making his debut in senior football had to be substituted when he became distressed at the abuse he was receiving from some supporters of Peterhead FC in the north east of Scotland.On another occasion, Humza Yousaf, a young Asian MSP at Holyrood was subjected, in daylight, to a violent and racist tirade while selling the Big Issue. He had agreed to do this to raise awareness of issues surrounding homeless people in Scotland.Few would suggest that these incidents mean that Scotland suddenly has a problem with racism. Yet we ought also to acknowledge that for each of these that were reported and recorded there will be dozens more that go unchronicled. Nor would it be wise to oversimplify the reasons why we are witnessing these bubbles on the surface of the cesspit. Yet it seems to me to be inescapable that some of these reasons are similar to those that we encounter when trying to explain the relatively sudden rise of a party like Ukip in Britain.This is a party which, in the absence of any coherent economic, social or cultural policy, has become a significant power in England and Wales on the back of one of the most wicked deceptions ever practised on our southern neighbours: that immigration is intrinsically bad, that indolent people from \"undesirable\" countries (eastern Europe and most of Africa) are taking white Anglo-Saxon jobs, and that they are placing an unsustainable burden on the NHS and our system of benefits.This has combined with a rise in anti-Muslim sentiment fuelled by tragic events such as the slaying of Private Lee Rigby. Rapidly, it seems, a residual fear and distrust of Islam, which had always lurked on the periphery of what we could call outright racism, has entered the mainstream. And it has done so as large elements of British society have begun to express themselves in distorted and strident militarism. In this, the humble poppy has also become a casualty. Once it was a silent and lovely memoriam to noble sacrifice, now it is used by our political and military elite to engender a sense of triumphalism. Not to be seen sporting a poppy in the month of November is to risk being accused of treason.Much of this may be justified when Britain is facing mortal peril. But, in the absence of such, too many of us begin to look for an enemy within. Those who are other and different and puzzling become easy targets, especially those who are foolish enough to look content and prosperous. How dare they?And now it seems that some of the tendrils of this creeping disease have reached Scotland. Well, we had better start to look aboot us, because these have the capacity to poison us. And we had better also start being loud and aggressive with the opposite message: Scotland needs more immigration. If we still think that old age deserves choice and quality of life then some facts must be faced. Britain has an ageing population and Scotland's is ageing more rapidly than that of the rest of the UK. We need another one million immigrants in this country paying taxes and national insurance as well as purchasing goods and services. This they tend to do and they tend not to get as sick and depressed as the rest of us. Happily, the SNP is the world's only nationalist party which actually welcomes immigration. The Scottish Labour party, when it governed, enshrined this, too.It's good to walk down the streets of your city and behold the sights and sounds and smells of different people from far away countries. How can that ever be bad?In England in the 16th century, in a time considered to be more inhumane and uncivilised, the words of William Shakespeare (from Sir Thomas More) resonate still:\"Imagine that you see the wretched strangers,Their babies at the backs, and their poor luggagePlodding to th' ports and coast for transportation[...]Should so much come too short of your great trespassAs but to banish you: whither would you go?What country, by the nature of your error,Should give you harbour?[...]Why you must needs be strangers. Would you be pleasedTo find a nation of such barbarous temperThat breaking out into hideous violenceWould not afford you an abode on earth,Whet their detested knives against your throats,Spurn you like dogs[? ...][...] This is the strangers' caseAnd this your mountainish inhumanity.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Immigration and asylum", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "UK news", "Glasgow", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Politics", "UK Independence party (Ukip)"], "title": "We need more immigration in Scotland | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2014-03-08T20:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard stands accused of covering up \"institutionalised sexism\" within the police in trying to block civil claims launched by women allegedly deceived into sexual relationships with undercover officers.Police lawyers are applying to strike out, on secrecy grounds, the claims of five women who say they were duped into intimate long-term relationships with four undercover police officers working within the special demonstration squad (SDS), a Metropolitan police unit set up to infiltrate protest groups.The legal bid, funded by the taxpayer, is being fought despite widespread outrage and promises of future transparency by Scotland Yard, following official confirmation last week that an undercover officer was deployed 21 years ago to spy on the grieving family of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence.The Observer understands that police lawyers are asking the high court to reject claims against the Metropolitan police on the grounds that the force cannot deviate from its policy of neither confirming nor denying issues regarding undercover policing.It is understood that Scotland Yard will say in a hearing, scheduled to be held on 18 March, that it is not in a position to respond to claims and therefore cannot defend it.Last week an independent inquiry revealed that an officer identified only as N81 was deployed in a group \"positioned close to the Lawrence family campaign\". The spy gathered \"some personal details relating to\" the murdered teenager's parents. It was also disclosed that undercover officers had given false evidence in the courts and acted as if they were exempt from the normal rules of evidence disclosure.A separate report on a police investigation into the SDS found that three former officers who had had sexual relations with women who had not known their true identities could face criminal charges.Harriet Wistrich, a lawyer at Birnberg Peirce & Partners representing the women, said it was absurd that Scotland Yard claimed to be transparent while blocking her clients' bid for justice in open court. On Friday the former director of prosecutions, Lord Macdonald, accused the police of engendering a \"culture of conceit\".Wistrich said: \"They should just hold up their hands and say, 'this is terrible, we recognise that and are doing everything we can do to put it right'.\"Wistrich said Scotland Yard had made no move to reverse its legal position despite calls by Theresa May, the home secretary, for transparency in the wake of what she last week described as \"profoundly disturbing\" findings.\"They are basically saying that we have this policy and we have to uphold the policy because we gave lifelong assurances that we would not reveal their identities. This is nonsense when some have confessed themselves to being undercover officers.\"In total, we have got five different officers between the eight claimants and our own evidence suggests there was a deliberate kind of encouragement to do this. We are not just talking about a bad apple \u2026 but a rotten-to-the-core, institutionalised sexism.\"The officers accused of forging long-term sexual relationships with women while undercover are Jim Boyling, Bob Lambert, John Dines and Mark Jenner.Last week May announced a public inquiry into the work of undercover police officers shortly after the publication of the inquiry on allegations of spying on the Lawrence family.There are additional calls, including by shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna, for an examination of the role of undercover officers in providing information for a blacklist operation run by major companies within the construction industry which forced more than 3,000 people out of the sector.Brian Richardson, a barrister who has set up an umbrella group, Campaign Opposing Police Surveillance, said: \"It is extremely important that the proposed inquiry considers the infiltration of the Lawrence family campaign and that of [all] the targets of police surveillance. However, we must continue to campaign to ensure that the inquiry is fully transparent and that those responsible \u2026 are held to account.\"", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Stephen Lawrence", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard in new undercover police row"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-30T16:15:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "They don't know whodunnit. But they sure as hell know what he done. By suggesting a post-independence currency union was still on the table, the anonymous coalition mole who spoke to the Guardian on Friday has burrowed deep into the already shaky confidence of Better Together.Deep enough for the Scotland secretary, Alistair Carmichael, the Lib Dems' Dr No, to warn colleagues that the yes campaign was gathering momentum. You know things are serious when John Major is being winkled out to embark on a tartan charm offensive. Not to mention a brigade of northern English MPs being dispatched across the border to tell Scots they love them really. No really.And all to reinvent a no campaign that has thus far much preferred the big stick to anything carrot-shaped. Numerous cabinet ministers have been making day trips to Scotland explaining why everything from the economy to defence will implode without the comfort blanket of the union. And watch out for your pension by the way.Just as Scots await predictions of the killing of the first born, up pops the Master of the Polls, John Curtice, to opine that the self-styled Project Fear has been stirring up more irritation than insecurity.And you have to say that a campaign slogan of \"you're too wee, too poor and too stupid to cope\" never had much going for it in the empathy stakes. What the parade of day-trippers seem to have not quite grasped is that devolution, now 15 years old, is not a destination but\u00a0a process.Over administrations of all political shades, Scotland has already chosen to make radically different policy choices within the parameters of the devolution settlement. State education has not gone down the route of academies and free schools. It has set its face against serial testing of young children. It has made a bid to tailor the product to the child rather than the converse.The Curriculum for Excellence covers children from three to 18 and has four stated aims: to produce successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors. While it has core subjects, it believes in the power of creativity to enhance both teaching and learning. The major arts funding body, Creative Scotland, in tandem with Education Scotland, has produced a Creative Learning Plan whose stakeholders include the General Teaching Council Scotland and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.This chimes with the views of the education secretary, Michael Russell, and culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, who used the annual Talbot Rice lecture last year to extol the potential of the arts as a transformative experience. This\u00a0was\u00a0hard on the heels of Maria Miller's Westminster speech advising the cultural sector in England that it had\u00a0to pay its way to survive.The NHS in Scotland makes minimal use of private provision. The flagship Golden Jubilee hospital near Glasgow, originally built by Health Care International for use by wealthy overseas patients, was bought by the Scottish government as an NHS facility 12 years ago. It is now the main centre of excellence for heart and lung surgery and an acknowledged world leader in orthopaedics. It performed 30,000 procedures in its first year. By its tenth it\u00a0was doing 300,000.Scotland still suffers from enormous health inequalities and higher than average mortality rates related to alcohol and drug abuse and poor diet, which rose from the 1980s onwards. However, NHS Scotland's five-year strategy is aimed at reducing these through prevention focusing on tackling child poverty and youth unemployment.The political parties in Scotland can still give sack-bound ferrets a run for their money on many topics, but they are as one on items such as the much-loathed bedroom tax, which all the major parties have pledged to ditch.There is broad agreement on migration too. Scotland wants more migrants to populate its more remote regions, and harness the skills and talents of foreign graduates. Ukip barely registers on voting intentions.All of which gives Better Together a slightly historical ring in a country that has long since grown apart from the world according to Westminster.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland is already another country | Ruth Wishart"},{"date": "2014-01-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's Better Together campaign may be well ahead in the polls, but it is under fire from critics who say its message of doom and gloom is failing to inspire even the most ardent unionist with a positive vision of the country's future inside the UK. In contrast, the alternative destinies being mooted by the campaign for an independent Scotland are vivid and appealing. They include the recurring theme of a Scandinavian Scotland, a small independent state not only emulating the social-democratic welfare models of its Nordic neighbours, but actually joining the institutions that Europe's so-called Nordic tier share among themselves.This a prospect championed by the likes of the SNP's defence spokesman Angus Robertson, who argues that Scotland could join the Nordic Council if it left the UK. \"Given that Scotland is a northern European country with the Atlantic to our west, the Iceland gap to our north and the North Sea to our east, we should take responsibility for the environmental and defence challenges we face there \u2026 But Scotland needs the full toolbox that independence brings to do it.\"If Scotland did knock at the\u00a0Nordic door, would anyone answer? Judging by my interviews with campaigners and activists from Sweden and Norway, they would have one ally, at least, in Swedish activist Gunnar Wetterberg: \"If the Scots phoned we'd be overjoyed!\" he said.But then Wetterberg also champions a\u00a0Nordic union in which Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland abandon their own independence and lock themselves together to form a single federal state that would be\u00a0wealthy enough to take a seat\u00a0at\u00a0the G7. That idea does not\u00a0command much mainstream support.For the most part, the Nordics are content as they are, and they\u00a0have a lot to be content about \u2013 an enviable club of small independent states each flying its own flag (happily \"going it alone\", in the parlance of the Scottish independence debate), with dynamic wealth-creating economies, egalitarian societies, and high taxes that pay for strong welfare provision. Would small-nation solidarity reach across the\u00a0North Sea to welcome a Caledonian cousin?Political scientist Oivind Bratberg spoke for many when he\u00a0told me, disappointingly for Scotland's Yes camp: \"Norwegians are very fond of the\u00a0idea of Britain. They look back at the war with loyalty towards London, where our government and our royal family were located. It's very difficult to conceive of Scotland as detached from the UK.\"Even the redoubtable Scottish broadcaster and campaigner Lesley Riddoch, a fierce champion of a Scotland remodelled on a Scandinavian template, has her doubts. \"I feel at home [in the Nordic countries],\" she says. \"You see aspects of Scottish society played out there that are latent or\u00a0struggling in Scotland itself.\" She is a frequent visitor to our northern neighbours. Do they care about Scotland's referendum? Are we on their radar? Scarcely at all, she concedes.\u2022 Does Scandinavia Want Scotland? BBC Radio 4, Monday at 8pm\u2022 This article amended on 27 January 2014. The Iceland gap is to the north of Scotland, not the south. This article was further amended on 28 January 2014 because Gunnar Wetterberg is Swedish, not Norwegian as the original said.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Norway", "Europe", "World news", "Sweden", "Denmark", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Would the Scandinavians want Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-03-09T05:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The most uplifting and affirmative action I've seen this year occurred in distressing circumstances in Glasgow's Sauchiehall Street. The event was filmed by BBC Scotland for their series, The Street, chronicling the reality of life on Scotland's liveliest boulevard. In it we see Melo, a young African street musician, being racially abused by two white thugs. After one of the men approached him for the purposes of calling him a \"black bastard\", this is what we subsequently heard:\"What about the fucking British or the homeless? You are taking the fucking piss. You are milking our country for thousands, ya fucking black bastard.\"How much do you make sitting here busking every fucking day? You're making thousands. I pay taxes every fucking month; hundreds of pounds to keep you in the fucking country.\"You are a black bastard, admit it.\"One of the white gargoyles then attempts to assault him. Melo, though, was having none of it and began rebuking his assailants while defending himself with a small trolley he had been using as a prop. Melo, who looks like a chap with substantial reserves of character and courage, decides he might as well go down fighting. \"Get away from me,\" he tells them. \"Any more and I will batter you both to the floor.\" It's thought that Melo had come to live in Glasgow after fleeing from the civil war in Angola, his home country.For generations now, we Scots have congratulated ourselves that we don't have a racial problem on anything like the scale that exists in parts of England. It's a complacent attitude and one that has been blown apart since the start of this year. For there have been several other incidents reported in the press and television that have been as sickening as the attack on Melo. Two weeks ago a 17-year-old schoolboy making his debut in senior football had to be substituted when he became distressed at the abuse he was receiving from some supporters of Peterhead FC in the north east of Scotland.On another occasion, Humza Yousaf, a young Asian MSP at Holyrood was subjected, in daylight, to a violent and racist tirade while selling the Big Issue. He had agreed to do this to raise awareness of issues surrounding homeless people in Scotland.Few would suggest that these incidents mean that Scotland suddenly has a problem with racism. Yet we ought also to acknowledge that for each of these that were reported and recorded there will be dozens more that go unchronicled. Nor would it be wise to oversimplify the reasons why we are witnessing these bubbles on the surface of the cesspit. Yet it seems to me to be inescapable that some of these reasons are similar to those that we encounter when trying to explain the relatively sudden rise of a party like Ukip in Britain.This is a party which, in the absence of any coherent economic, social or cultural policy, has become a significant power in England and Wales on the back of one of the most wicked deceptions ever practised on our southern neighbours: that immigration is intrinsically bad, that indolent people from \"undesirable\" countries (eastern Europe and most of Africa) are taking white Anglo-Saxon jobs, and that they are placing an unsustainable burden on the NHS and our system of benefits.This has combined with a rise in anti-Muslim sentiment fuelled by tragic events such as the slaying of Private Lee Rigby. Rapidly, it seems, a residual fear and distrust of Islam, which had always lurked on the periphery of what we could call outright racism, has entered the mainstream. And it has done so as large elements of British society have begun to express themselves in distorted and strident militarism. In this, the humble poppy has also become a casualty. Once it was a silent and lovely memoriam to noble sacrifice, now it is used by our political and military elite to engender a sense of triumphalism. Not to be seen sporting a poppy in the month of November is to risk being accused of treason.Much of this may be justified when Britain is facing mortal peril. But, in the absence of such, too many of us begin to look for an enemy within. Those who are other and different and puzzling become easy targets, especially those who are foolish enough to look content and prosperous. How dare they?And now it seems that some of the tendrils of this creeping disease have reached Scotland. Well, we had better start to look aboot us, because these have the capacity to poison us. And we had better also start being loud and aggressive with the opposite message: Scotland needs more immigration. If we still think that old age deserves choice and quality of life then some facts must be faced. Britain has an ageing population and Scotland's is ageing more rapidly than that of the rest of the UK. We need another one million immigrants in this country paying taxes and national insurance as well as purchasing goods and services. This they tend to do and they tend not to get as sick and depressed as the rest of us. Happily, the SNP is the world's only nationalist party which actually welcomes immigration. The Scottish Labour party, when it governed, enshrined this, too.It's good to walk down the streets of your city and behold the sights and sounds and smells of different people from far away countries. How can that ever be bad?In England in the 16th century, in a time considered to be more inhumane and uncivilised, the words of William Shakespeare (from Sir Thomas More) resonate still:\"Imagine that you see the wretched strangers,Their babies at the backs, and their poor luggagePlodding to th' ports and coast for transportation[...]Should so much come too short of your great trespassAs but to banish you: whither would you go?What country, by the nature of your error,Should give you harbour?[...]Why you must needs be strangers. Would you be pleasedTo find a nation of such barbarous temperThat breaking out into hideous violenceWould not afford you an abode on earth,Whet their detested knives against your throats,Spurn you like dogs[? ...][...] This is the strangers' caseAnd this your mountainish inhumanity.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Immigration and asylum", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "UK news", "Glasgow", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Politics", "UK Independence party (Ukip)"], "title": "We need more immigration in Scotland | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2014-03-08T20:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard stands accused of covering up \"institutionalised sexism\" within the police in trying to block civil claims launched by women allegedly deceived into sexual relationships with undercover officers.Police lawyers are applying to strike out, on secrecy grounds, the claims of five women who say they were duped into intimate long-term relationships with four undercover police officers working within the special demonstration squad (SDS), a Metropolitan police unit set up to infiltrate protest groups.The legal bid, funded by the taxpayer, is being fought despite widespread outrage and promises of future transparency by Scotland Yard, following official confirmation last week that an undercover officer was deployed 21 years ago to spy on the grieving family of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence.The Observer understands that police lawyers are asking the high court to reject claims against the Metropolitan police on the grounds that the force cannot deviate from its policy of neither confirming nor denying issues regarding undercover policing.It is understood that Scotland Yard will say in a hearing, scheduled to be held on 18 March, that it is not in a position to respond to claims and therefore cannot defend it.Last week an independent inquiry revealed that an officer identified only as N81 was deployed in a group \"positioned close to the Lawrence family campaign\". The spy gathered \"some personal details relating to\" the murdered teenager's parents. It was also disclosed that undercover officers had given false evidence in the courts and acted as if they were exempt from the normal rules of evidence disclosure.A separate report on a police investigation into the SDS found that three former officers who had had sexual relations with women who had not known their true identities could face criminal charges.Harriet Wistrich, a lawyer at Birnberg Peirce & Partners representing the women, said it was absurd that Scotland Yard claimed to be transparent while blocking her clients' bid for justice in open court. On Friday the former director of prosecutions, Lord Macdonald, accused the police of engendering a \"culture of conceit\".Wistrich said: \"They should just hold up their hands and say, 'this is terrible, we recognise that and are doing everything we can do to put it right'.\"Wistrich said Scotland Yard had made no move to reverse its legal position despite calls by Theresa May, the home secretary, for transparency in the wake of what she last week described as \"profoundly disturbing\" findings.\"They are basically saying that we have this policy and we have to uphold the policy because we gave lifelong assurances that we would not reveal their identities. This is nonsense when some have confessed themselves to being undercover officers.\"In total, we have got five different officers between the eight claimants and our own evidence suggests there was a deliberate kind of encouragement to do this. We are not just talking about a bad apple \u2026 but a rotten-to-the-core, institutionalised sexism.\"The officers accused of forging long-term sexual relationships with women while undercover are Jim Boyling, Bob Lambert, John Dines and Mark Jenner.Last week May announced a public inquiry into the work of undercover police officers shortly after the publication of the inquiry on allegations of spying on the Lawrence family.There are additional calls, including by shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna, for an examination of the role of undercover officers in providing information for a blacklist operation run by major companies within the construction industry which forced more than 3,000 people out of the sector.Brian Richardson, a barrister who has set up an umbrella group, Campaign Opposing Police Surveillance, said: \"It is extremely important that the proposed inquiry considers the infiltration of the Lawrence family campaign and that of [all] the targets of police surveillance. However, we must continue to campaign to ensure that the inquiry is fully transparent and that those responsible \u2026 are held to account.\"", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Stephen Lawrence", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard in new undercover police row"},{"date": "2014-02-23T00:04:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It came about, in part, because of a Jiffy bag. Some years ago the now-late Peggy Macleod, a native of Shawbost on the beautifully stormswept west coast of Lewis, decided to get a print made from a box of glass photographic plates which had languished, quite unremarked, in her barn for decades. She wondered, in her quiet, contained manner, if the Stornoway Gazette could be of any help. Well, yes and no.They printed up her century-old picture, right enough. But some harried office junior decided to post back the fragile glass plate in said Jiffy, with the inevitable consequences. If it's not an error quite up there with that of the London gopher who, tasked with processing Robert Capa's photographs from the Normandy landings, went for a too-liquid lunch and left them in the drying-oven an hour too long and thus rendered them all but indecipherable, it still, historically, irks. But it prompted Peggy to make a few inquiries of friends, and of the local historical society. Were the plates, perhaps, of cultural significance \u2013 a slightly daunting thought to her? And should she take steps to have them preserved?She asked but tentatively: even though Facebook was arriving in the Outer Hebrides, some stoic right-thinking souls there still believe all life need not necessarily be an urgent voiding of personal information. And slowly, so slowly, it was realised that they had been the work of one man, whose images had somehow ended up (probably via a neighbour's house-clearance in the 1950s) in Peggy's barn, and Dr Norman Morrison was thus rediscovered.Morrison, Gaelic name Tormod an t-Se\u00f2ladair, was an extraordinary man, even for those isles. Born in 1869 also in Shawbost (Siabost), he was denied, mainly through circumstances \u2013 relative poverty, a large family, the harshness of life on Lewis \u2013 the benefits of anything but the bones of an education. \"My father did not believe in education for people so humble as we were,\" he would write in his 1937 autobiography, nor was he obliged to facilitate it: the Education Act had not yet reached Lewis. Norman, a strong and tall youth, worked the croft, built drystane dykes and paid the occasional visit, when allowed, to Shawbost Old School, where he drank up the chance to learn, and never stopped doing so until his death in 1949.On reaching early adulthood he was meant to do duty on the trawlers (not really trawlers \u2013 24ft open boats, fishing with long lines with baited hooks), but found that he suffered from crippling seasickness. He decided to get on the steamer to Glasgow, and join the police. His book, My Story, contains harrowing tales, drily told, of the world of Glasgow policing in the 1890s, and of the politics of the police: he was a keen believer in the rights of the worker, and summarily dismissed (only to be reinstated by public demand). Today he is credited as co-founder of the Scottish Police Federation.Posted to Argyll, he developed a fascination with snakes. He would walk around Kintyre counting snakes' heartbeats. He became known as the \"Adder King\", occasionally came to work with a snake in his sleeve and would go on to publish seven highly regarded books on herpetology (and prove, inter alia, that snakes are not susceptible to music). But despite becoming a Fellow of the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland \u2013 accorded a doctorate in France and winningly peer-reviewed in the US \u2013 British universities refused to consider his thesis, because he was not a graduate.\"Know something about everything, and know everything about one thing,\" was Norman's constant aphorism. And \u2013 and \u2013 he also knew something about photography, as bear witness these fin-de-si\u00e8cle shots of Lewis families, taken with exposures of up to 10 seconds.Such honest photos, taken before the photographic art was even into long trousers, yet shorn of the romanticising tendencies of the Victorian age, should perhaps speak for themselves \u2013 but I'll insist on co-opting this paper's own photographer, Murdo MacLeod, who also comes from Shawbost: \"They are truly, truly remarkable, these shots. Not just because of the early times, but because of the slant it affords us into how the people wanted to be seen \u2013 not as simple folk, sickle in hand, in a picturesque landscape. See, the islanders knew Norman as one of their own. And as such, they wanted to present themselves as they wanted to be seen. There are guns, and jewellery. And they were faintly ashamed of the local blackhouses, preferring instead to be pictured against the newfangled harling. But there's also a severe nod to the real fear of the devil: you'll see Bibles, with thumbs held in them, in case this new photography should be the work of Satan.\"Peter May, author of the bestselling Lewis Trilogy, concurs. \"I've been following recently the story of these photographs, and it's a fascinating one. What we're discovering here is no less than the young days of an early art, and how people wanted to be seen, which had never happened before.\"The photographs are reproduced courtesy of Comann Eachdraidh an Taobh Siar (The West Side of the Isle of Lewis Historical Society, based in Shawbost's Old School), and can be seen in the community museum", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Family", "Life and style"], "title": "The lost pictures of Lewis, Scotland"},{"date": "2014-03-10T21:45:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was Alex Salmond who wanted to put enhanced devolution on the Scottish referendum ballot, and he may feel that it is an irony that he was blocked by the very unionist parties that are suddenly throwing their own versions of devo max into the independence debate. But on Monday, after weeks of no-lobby picking over SNP presumptions about a post-independence sterling union, two big beasts of the unionist jungle did exactly that.Gordon Brown, whose voice has rarely pierced public consciousness since he left Downing Street, took to a Labour stage in Glasgow, and proposed that Westminster should cede several fiscal levers of power to Holyrood, as part of a wider, decentralising overhaul of the constitution. Some in England will dismiss the idea that Mr Brown has anything to teach anybody about sharing power, or indeed winning campaigns. But the caricature of the No 10 years, of a disliked, power-mad figure, was always too crude. His interest in constitutional questions has deep roots, and was a strong early theme of his premiership, before political infighting and economic catastrophe engulfed him. In Scotland, unlike England, Mr Brown was always respected and performed well in 2010: Labour held all its seats then, and he may well be listened to now. His arguments on Monday certainly merit that.Scotland already runs most of its own services, but even after 2012's Scotland Act, Holyrood controls only a small sliver of its own spending  by the standards of devolved parliaments elsewhere in the world. Mr Brown wants to redress some of this imbalance. Sir Menzies Campbell, the second retired Scottish leader of a UK-wide party to enter the fray on Monday, agrees with Mr Brown on all this, as well as on the need to avoid a race to the bottom on corporate tax rates, as could happen if Scotland went it alone. He agrees, too, on the need to entrench devolution in a new constitutional settlement, which suggests scope for a cross-party reform agenda after a no verdict, although Sir Menzies's report went further than Mr Brown's words in one crucial respect.The phrase \"home rule all round\" has resonated with Liberals for over a century, and Sir Menzies hankers for a comprehensive federal solution, which would cover England too. As a Labour man, Mr Brown is wary of the implications for Westminster's arithmetic, and somewhat cagier here. The strict logic is on Sir Menzies's side, but Britain's asymmetric devolution is not unique. Structures for Catalonia and the Basque country likewise sacrifice a tidy constitutional organogram to political realities. How far the next steps in reforming the union will go remains a question for debate. But it was heartening to hear unionist voices explain how \"no\" can be the beginning, rather than the end of a conversation.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 March 2014. An earlier version said that Holyrood controls only a small slither, rather than sliver, of its own spending.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland: the Brown blueprint | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-30T16:15:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "They don't know whodunnit. But they sure as hell know what he done. By suggesting a post-independence currency union was still on the table, the anonymous coalition mole who spoke to the Guardian on Friday has burrowed deep into the already shaky confidence of Better Together.Deep enough for the Scotland secretary, Alistair Carmichael, the Lib Dems' Dr No, to warn colleagues that the yes campaign was gathering momentum. You know things are serious when John Major is being winkled out to embark on a tartan charm offensive. Not to mention a brigade of northern English MPs being dispatched across the border to tell Scots they love them really. No really.And all to reinvent a no campaign that has thus far much preferred the big stick to anything carrot-shaped. Numerous cabinet ministers have been making day trips to Scotland explaining why everything from the economy to defence will implode without the comfort blanket of the union. And watch out for your pension by the way.Just as Scots await predictions of the killing of the first born, up pops the Master of the Polls, John Curtice, to opine that the self-styled Project Fear has been stirring up more irritation than insecurity.And you have to say that a campaign slogan of \"you're too wee, too poor and too stupid to cope\" never had much going for it in the empathy stakes. What the parade of day-trippers seem to have not quite grasped is that devolution, now 15 years old, is not a destination but\u00a0a process.Over administrations of all political shades, Scotland has already chosen to make radically different policy choices within the parameters of the devolution settlement. State education has not gone down the route of academies and free schools. It has set its face against serial testing of young children. It has made a bid to tailor the product to the child rather than the converse.The Curriculum for Excellence covers children from three to 18 and has four stated aims: to produce successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors. While it has core subjects, it believes in the power of creativity to enhance both teaching and learning. The major arts funding body, Creative Scotland, in tandem with Education Scotland, has produced a Creative Learning Plan whose stakeholders include the General Teaching Council Scotland and the Scottish Qualifications Authority.This chimes with the views of the education secretary, Michael Russell, and culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, who used the annual Talbot Rice lecture last year to extol the potential of the arts as a transformative experience. This\u00a0was\u00a0hard on the heels of Maria Miller's Westminster speech advising the cultural sector in England that it had\u00a0to pay its way to survive.The NHS in Scotland makes minimal use of private provision. The flagship Golden Jubilee hospital near Glasgow, originally built by Health Care International for use by wealthy overseas patients, was bought by the Scottish government as an NHS facility 12 years ago. It is now the main centre of excellence for heart and lung surgery and an acknowledged world leader in orthopaedics. It performed 30,000 procedures in its first year. By its tenth it\u00a0was doing 300,000.Scotland still suffers from enormous health inequalities and higher than average mortality rates related to alcohol and drug abuse and poor diet, which rose from the 1980s onwards. However, NHS Scotland's five-year strategy is aimed at reducing these through prevention focusing on tackling child poverty and youth unemployment.The political parties in Scotland can still give sack-bound ferrets a run for their money on many topics, but they are as one on items such as the much-loathed bedroom tax, which all the major parties have pledged to ditch.There is broad agreement on migration too. Scotland wants more migrants to populate its more remote regions, and harness the skills and talents of foreign graduates. Ukip barely registers on voting intentions.All of which gives Better Together a slightly historical ring in a country that has long since grown apart from the world according to Westminster.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland is already another country | Ruth Wishart"},{"date": "2014-01-26T18:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland's Better Together campaign may be well ahead in the polls, but it is under fire from critics who say its message of doom and gloom is failing to inspire even the most ardent unionist with a positive vision of the country's future inside the UK. In contrast, the alternative destinies being mooted by the campaign for an independent Scotland are vivid and appealing. They include the recurring theme of a Scandinavian Scotland, a small independent state not only emulating the social-democratic welfare models of its Nordic neighbours, but actually joining the institutions that Europe's so-called Nordic tier share among themselves.This a prospect championed by the likes of the SNP's defence spokesman Angus Robertson, who argues that Scotland could join the Nordic Council if it left the UK. \"Given that Scotland is a northern European country with the Atlantic to our west, the Iceland gap to our north and the North Sea to our east, we should take responsibility for the environmental and defence challenges we face there \u2026 But Scotland needs the full toolbox that independence brings to do it.\"If Scotland did knock at the\u00a0Nordic door, would anyone answer? Judging by my interviews with campaigners and activists from Sweden and Norway, they would have one ally, at least, in Swedish activist Gunnar Wetterberg: \"If the Scots phoned we'd be overjoyed!\" he said.But then Wetterberg also champions a\u00a0Nordic union in which Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland abandon their own independence and lock themselves together to form a single federal state that would be\u00a0wealthy enough to take a seat\u00a0at\u00a0the G7. That idea does not\u00a0command much mainstream support.For the most part, the Nordics are content as they are, and they\u00a0have a lot to be content about \u2013 an enviable club of small independent states each flying its own flag (happily \"going it alone\", in the parlance of the Scottish independence debate), with dynamic wealth-creating economies, egalitarian societies, and high taxes that pay for strong welfare provision. Would small-nation solidarity reach across the\u00a0North Sea to welcome a Caledonian cousin?Political scientist Oivind Bratberg spoke for many when he\u00a0told me, disappointingly for Scotland's Yes camp: \"Norwegians are very fond of the\u00a0idea of Britain. They look back at the war with loyalty towards London, where our government and our royal family were located. It's very difficult to conceive of Scotland as detached from the UK.\"Even the redoubtable Scottish broadcaster and campaigner Lesley Riddoch, a fierce champion of a Scotland remodelled on a Scandinavian template, has her doubts. \"I feel at home [in the Nordic countries],\" she says. \"You see aspects of Scottish society played out there that are latent or\u00a0struggling in Scotland itself.\" She is a frequent visitor to our northern neighbours. Do they care about Scotland's referendum? Are we on their radar? Scarcely at all, she concedes.\u2022 Does Scandinavia Want Scotland? BBC Radio 4, Monday at 8pm\u2022 This article amended on 27 January 2014. The Iceland gap is to the north of Scotland, not the south. This article was further amended on 28 January 2014 because Gunnar Wetterberg is Swedish, not Norwegian as the original said.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Norway", "Europe", "World news", "Sweden", "Denmark", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Would the Scandinavians want Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-03-09T05:45:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The most uplifting and affirmative action I've seen this year occurred in distressing circumstances in Glasgow's Sauchiehall Street. The event was filmed by BBC Scotland for their series, The Street, chronicling the reality of life on Scotland's liveliest boulevard. In it we see Melo, a young African street musician, being racially abused by two white thugs. After one of the men approached him for the purposes of calling him a \"black bastard\", this is what we subsequently heard:\"What about the fucking British or the homeless? You are taking the fucking piss. You are milking our country for thousands, ya fucking black bastard.\"How much do you make sitting here busking every fucking day? You're making thousands. I pay taxes every fucking month; hundreds of pounds to keep you in the fucking country.\"You are a black bastard, admit it.\"One of the white gargoyles then attempts to assault him. Melo, though, was having none of it and began rebuking his assailants while defending himself with a small trolley he had been using as a prop. Melo, who looks like a chap with substantial reserves of character and courage, decides he might as well go down fighting. \"Get away from me,\" he tells them. \"Any more and I will batter you both to the floor.\" It's thought that Melo had come to live in Glasgow after fleeing from the civil war in Angola, his home country.For generations now, we Scots have congratulated ourselves that we don't have a racial problem on anything like the scale that exists in parts of England. It's a complacent attitude and one that has been blown apart since the start of this year. For there have been several other incidents reported in the press and television that have been as sickening as the attack on Melo. Two weeks ago a 17-year-old schoolboy making his debut in senior football had to be substituted when he became distressed at the abuse he was receiving from some supporters of Peterhead FC in the north east of Scotland.On another occasion, Humza Yousaf, a young Asian MSP at Holyrood was subjected, in daylight, to a violent and racist tirade while selling the Big Issue. He had agreed to do this to raise awareness of issues surrounding homeless people in Scotland.Few would suggest that these incidents mean that Scotland suddenly has a problem with racism. Yet we ought also to acknowledge that for each of these that were reported and recorded there will be dozens more that go unchronicled. Nor would it be wise to oversimplify the reasons why we are witnessing these bubbles on the surface of the cesspit. Yet it seems to me to be inescapable that some of these reasons are similar to those that we encounter when trying to explain the relatively sudden rise of a party like Ukip in Britain.This is a party which, in the absence of any coherent economic, social or cultural policy, has become a significant power in England and Wales on the back of one of the most wicked deceptions ever practised on our southern neighbours: that immigration is intrinsically bad, that indolent people from \"undesirable\" countries (eastern Europe and most of Africa) are taking white Anglo-Saxon jobs, and that they are placing an unsustainable burden on the NHS and our system of benefits.This has combined with a rise in anti-Muslim sentiment fuelled by tragic events such as the slaying of Private Lee Rigby. Rapidly, it seems, a residual fear and distrust of Islam, which had always lurked on the periphery of what we could call outright racism, has entered the mainstream. And it has done so as large elements of British society have begun to express themselves in distorted and strident militarism. In this, the humble poppy has also become a casualty. Once it was a silent and lovely memoriam to noble sacrifice, now it is used by our political and military elite to engender a sense of triumphalism. Not to be seen sporting a poppy in the month of November is to risk being accused of treason.Much of this may be justified when Britain is facing mortal peril. But, in the absence of such, too many of us begin to look for an enemy within. Those who are other and different and puzzling become easy targets, especially those who are foolish enough to look content and prosperous. How dare they?And now it seems that some of the tendrils of this creeping disease have reached Scotland. Well, we had better start to look aboot us, because these have the capacity to poison us. And we had better also start being loud and aggressive with the opposite message: Scotland needs more immigration. If we still think that old age deserves choice and quality of life then some facts must be faced. Britain has an ageing population and Scotland's is ageing more rapidly than that of the rest of the UK. We need another one million immigrants in this country paying taxes and national insurance as well as purchasing goods and services. This they tend to do and they tend not to get as sick and depressed as the rest of us. Happily, the SNP is the world's only nationalist party which actually welcomes immigration. The Scottish Labour party, when it governed, enshrined this, too.It's good to walk down the streets of your city and behold the sights and sounds and smells of different people from far away countries. How can that ever be bad?In England in the 16th century, in a time considered to be more inhumane and uncivilised, the words of William Shakespeare (from Sir Thomas More) resonate still:\"Imagine that you see the wretched strangers,Their babies at the backs, and their poor luggagePlodding to th' ports and coast for transportation[...]Should so much come too short of your great trespassAs but to banish you: whither would you go?What country, by the nature of your error,Should give you harbour?[...]Why you must needs be strangers. Would you be pleasedTo find a nation of such barbarous temperThat breaking out into hideous violenceWould not afford you an abode on earth,Whet their detested knives against your throats,Spurn you like dogs[? ...][...] This is the strangers' caseAnd this your mountainish inhumanity.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Immigration and asylum", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "UK news", "Glasgow", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Politics", "UK Independence party (Ukip)"], "title": "We need more immigration in Scotland | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2014-03-08T20:30:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland Yard stands accused of covering up \"institutionalised sexism\" within the police in trying to block civil claims launched by women allegedly deceived into sexual relationships with undercover officers.Police lawyers are applying to strike out, on secrecy grounds, the claims of five women who say they were duped into intimate long-term relationships with four undercover police officers working within the special demonstration squad (SDS), a Metropolitan police unit set up to infiltrate protest groups.The legal bid, funded by the taxpayer, is being fought despite widespread outrage and promises of future transparency by Scotland Yard, following official confirmation last week that an undercover officer was deployed 21 years ago to spy on the grieving family of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence.The Observer understands that police lawyers are asking the high court to reject claims against the Metropolitan police on the grounds that the force cannot deviate from its policy of neither confirming nor denying issues regarding undercover policing.It is understood that Scotland Yard will say in a hearing, scheduled to be held on 18 March, that it is not in a position to respond to claims and therefore cannot defend it.Last week an independent inquiry revealed that an officer identified only as N81 was deployed in a group \"positioned close to the Lawrence family campaign\". The spy gathered \"some personal details relating to\" the murdered teenager's parents. It was also disclosed that undercover officers had given false evidence in the courts and acted as if they were exempt from the normal rules of evidence disclosure.A separate report on a police investigation into the SDS found that three former officers who had had sexual relations with women who had not known their true identities could face criminal charges.Harriet Wistrich, a lawyer at Birnberg Peirce & Partners representing the women, said it was absurd that Scotland Yard claimed to be transparent while blocking her clients' bid for justice in open court. On Friday the former director of prosecutions, Lord Macdonald, accused the police of engendering a \"culture of conceit\".Wistrich said: \"They should just hold up their hands and say, 'this is terrible, we recognise that and are doing everything we can do to put it right'.\"Wistrich said Scotland Yard had made no move to reverse its legal position despite calls by Theresa May, the home secretary, for transparency in the wake of what she last week described as \"profoundly disturbing\" findings.\"They are basically saying that we have this policy and we have to uphold the policy because we gave lifelong assurances that we would not reveal their identities. This is nonsense when some have confessed themselves to being undercover officers.\"In total, we have got five different officers between the eight claimants and our own evidence suggests there was a deliberate kind of encouragement to do this. We are not just talking about a bad apple \u2026 but a rotten-to-the-core, institutionalised sexism.\"The officers accused of forging long-term sexual relationships with women while undercover are Jim Boyling, Bob Lambert, John Dines and Mark Jenner.Last week May announced a public inquiry into the work of undercover police officers shortly after the publication of the inquiry on allegations of spying on the Lawrence family.There are additional calls, including by shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna, for an examination of the role of undercover officers in providing information for a blacklist operation run by major companies within the construction industry which forced more than 3,000 people out of the sector.Brian Richardson, a barrister who has set up an umbrella group, Campaign Opposing Police Surveillance, said: \"It is extremely important that the proposed inquiry considers the infiltration of the Lawrence family campaign and that of [all] the targets of police surveillance. However, we must continue to campaign to ensure that the inquiry is fully transparent and that those responsible \u2026 are held to account.\"", "tags": ["Metropolitan police", "Stephen Lawrence", "London", "Police", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard in new undercover police row"},{"date": "2014-02-23T00:04:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It came about, in part, because of a Jiffy bag. Some years ago the now-late Peggy Macleod, a native of Shawbost on the beautifully stormswept west coast of Lewis, decided to get a print made from a box of glass photographic plates which had languished, quite unremarked, in her barn for decades. She wondered, in her quiet, contained manner, if the Stornoway Gazette could be of any help. Well, yes and no.They printed up her century-old picture, right enough. But some harried office junior decided to post back the fragile glass plate in said Jiffy, with the inevitable consequences. If it's not an error quite up there with that of the London gopher who, tasked with processing Robert Capa's photographs from the Normandy landings, went for a too-liquid lunch and left them in the drying-oven an hour too long and thus rendered them all but indecipherable, it still, historically, irks. But it prompted Peggy to make a few inquiries of friends, and of the local historical society. Were the plates, perhaps, of cultural significance \u2013 a slightly daunting thought to her? And should she take steps to have them preserved?She asked but tentatively: even though Facebook was arriving in the Outer Hebrides, some stoic right-thinking souls there still believe all life need not necessarily be an urgent voiding of personal information. And slowly, so slowly, it was realised that they had been the work of one man, whose images had somehow ended up (probably via a neighbour's house-clearance in the 1950s) in Peggy's barn, and Dr Norman Morrison was thus rediscovered.Morrison, Gaelic name Tormod an t-Se\u00f2ladair, was an extraordinary man, even for those isles. Born in 1869 also in Shawbost (Siabost), he was denied, mainly through circumstances \u2013 relative poverty, a large family, the harshness of life on Lewis \u2013 the benefits of anything but the bones of an education. \"My father did not believe in education for people so humble as we were,\" he would write in his 1937 autobiography, nor was he obliged to facilitate it: the Education Act had not yet reached Lewis. Norman, a strong and tall youth, worked the croft, built drystane dykes and paid the occasional visit, when allowed, to Shawbost Old School, where he drank up the chance to learn, and never stopped doing so until his death in 1949.On reaching early adulthood he was meant to do duty on the trawlers (not really trawlers \u2013 24ft open boats, fishing with long lines with baited hooks), but found that he suffered from crippling seasickness. He decided to get on the steamer to Glasgow, and join the police. His book, My Story, contains harrowing tales, drily told, of the world of Glasgow policing in the 1890s, and of the politics of the police: he was a keen believer in the rights of the worker, and summarily dismissed (only to be reinstated by public demand). Today he is credited as co-founder of the Scottish Police Federation.Posted to Argyll, he developed a fascination with snakes. He would walk around Kintyre counting snakes' heartbeats. He became known as the \"Adder King\", occasionally came to work with a snake in his sleeve and would go on to publish seven highly regarded books on herpetology (and prove, inter alia, that snakes are not susceptible to music). But despite becoming a Fellow of the Royal Zoological Society of Scotland \u2013 accorded a doctorate in France and winningly peer-reviewed in the US \u2013 British universities refused to consider his thesis, because he was not a graduate.\"Know something about everything, and know everything about one thing,\" was Norman's constant aphorism. And \u2013 and \u2013 he also knew something about photography, as bear witness these fin-de-si\u00e8cle shots of Lewis families, taken with exposures of up to 10 seconds.Such honest photos, taken before the photographic art was even into long trousers, yet shorn of the romanticising tendencies of the Victorian age, should perhaps speak for themselves \u2013 but I'll insist on co-opting this paper's own photographer, Murdo MacLeod, who also comes from Shawbost: \"They are truly, truly remarkable, these shots. Not just because of the early times, but because of the slant it affords us into how the people wanted to be seen \u2013 not as simple folk, sickle in hand, in a picturesque landscape. See, the islanders knew Norman as one of their own. And as such, they wanted to present themselves as they wanted to be seen. There are guns, and jewellery. And they were faintly ashamed of the local blackhouses, preferring instead to be pictured against the newfangled harling. But there's also a severe nod to the real fear of the devil: you'll see Bibles, with thumbs held in them, in case this new photography should be the work of Satan.\"Peter May, author of the bestselling Lewis Trilogy, concurs. \"I've been following recently the story of these photographs, and it's a fascinating one. What we're discovering here is no less than the young days of an early art, and how people wanted to be seen, which had never happened before.\"The photographs are reproduced courtesy of Comann Eachdraidh an Taobh Siar (The West Side of the Isle of Lewis Historical Society, based in Shawbost's Old School), and can be seen in the community museum", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "Europe holidays", "Family", "Life and style"], "title": "The lost pictures of Lewis, Scotland"},{"date": "2014-02-14T20:19:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This is the month in which the debate about Scotland's future has suddenly got harder edged \u2013 and also more real. Until the end of January it often felt as though the Scottish National party was being allowed to set the terms unchallenged \u2013 and would perhaps be able to do so right up to the autumn referendum \u2013 all in the confident expectation of a comfortable no vote on 18 September. Until now, the version of Scottish independence under discussion was invariably the one proposed in the Panglossian you-won't-feel-a-thing terms recently cultivated by the SNP \u2013 an independent Scotland seamlessly retaining the crown, the pound, Europe, the NHS and Nato. As depicted by Alex Salmond, this Scotland was in many respects not so very different from the devolved and distinct nation of today.But the pretend version cannot be maintained any longer. So in the past eight days everything has changed. David Cameron's soft-cop speech in favour of the union in London, followed by George Osborne's hard-cop address rejecting currency union in Edinburgh on Thursday have raised the stakes. They will also surely galvanise the debate for a long time, perhaps right through to September.These have been co-ordinated interventions, almost certainly long prepared. Between them they represent a twin challenge to the soft-edged version of independence that is Mr Salmond's pitch. On the one hand they promote a more positive existential case for the union than before. On the other they offer a wake-up call about some of the tough things that independence could really mean. Together they are a counter-attack on the SNP's smiley version of a cost-free separation. Given the importance of the issues for everyone in the United Kingdom, this new toughness is largely to be welcomed.There is no doubt, if only because the polls make it clear, that economic issues are pivotal in the Scottish debate. People are more likely to vote for independence if they think their job, their mortgage and their pension are all rock-solid safe. They are more likely to vote against independence if they fear these things are even a little at risk. Recent years have made people cautious. So Mr Osborne's speech was a crucial one \u2013 and it could not have been much clearer.The case against currency union is an impressive one. It reflects the mood and the reality of the times, where the stresses and strains of the eurozone offer a warning of the risks of a badly executed or politically opportunist union. It is true that two separating nations that wanted to make a currency union work might find ways to do so. But the SNP is not primarily interested in strengthening the union. So there is no inherent reason why the remaining UK should prioritise anyone's interests other than its own. Yes, Mr Osborne could have made the case against currency union more in sorrow than in anger than he did. But his case cannot be dismissed as bullying or bluster, as Mr Salmond, who always plays the man rather than the ball, claimed.Mr Osborne's case was made politically stronger by the fact it was tightly co-ordinated with Labour and the Liberal Democrats. It remains to be seen how the one in three Scots who say their minds are not yet made up will respond. The likelihood in the long term is probably that the undecideds will divide much as the decideds have done. Taken together with Mr Cameron's speech last week, Mr Osborne's helps give the pro-union parties more standing to make a reasoned case in the face of the SNP's predictable sneering and occasional evasions.Now they need to start spelling out their plans for strengthening the UK's social union and some new, perhaps federalist, thinking about UK governance. This will not be easy for a Tory party that remains so in thrall to Thatcherite ideas and parts of which are destructively focused on Ukip. But the pro-union counter-attack has been launched and all the parties have no alternative except to follow it through.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "George Osborne"], "title": "Scotland referendum: politics at the business end | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-05-30T17:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland approaches the referendum on independence \u2013 in just over 100 days' time \u2013 and we consider the opportunity a yes vote can offer, there is absolutely no doubt that it is a wealthy country. We have extraordinary resources and natural talent.That fact has been clearly established by Scotland being the richest part of the UK outside London and the south-east, even when we exclude our oil and gas wealth. Scotland would have been ranked 14th in the OECD in terms of output per head in 2012 and among the richest in the world in terms of gross national income. The CPPR's figures show that even on its lowest assessment Scotland would be in the top 20 of the OECD in terms of wealth per head. On Scottish government figures Scotland would be wealthier per head than France, Japan and the UK.That is not surprising \u2013 we have top universities, we are a hotbed of life sciences, our food and drink industry is world class, we have key strengths in growth sectors such as creative industries, and we have 25% of the EU's offshore wind potential and nearly 60% of the EU's oil reserves.So no matter which measure you use, the wealth of Scotland is undeniable. The issue at the heart of the referendum debate is not whether we are wealthy enough to be an independent country but how we ensure that wealth properly benefits the people of Scotland.The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way. Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence.The fact that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar-sized countries \u2013 is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.A comparison between the handling of oil and gas revenues by the UK and Norwegian governments demonstrates the problem. Norway not only established an oil fund to ensure that its citizens would benefit indefinitely from their natural resources \u2013 something the UK has singularly failed to do \u2013 it also ensured that as the industry developed, domestic businesses were supported to play their part in it. Norway's oil savings fund is now the biggest sovereign wealth fund on the planet, worth more than \u00a3500bn; Scotland's oil fund stands at zero.That is not to say Scotland isn't doing well. We have some excellent homegrown firms, and in the oil and gas industry businesses like the Wood Group are world leaders. Aberdeen Asset Management is now one of the world's largest investment managers, and companies like Alexander Dennis are pioneering low-carbon technology and exporting their products around the world. But we can achieve more.The current situation has come about because decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland. I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job. This week the Scottish government set out some of our ambitions for Scotland.If within 15 years we can improve our productivity growth by just 0.3 percentage points a year, increase our employment rate by around three percentage points, and boost our working-age population, then we can generate at least \u00a35bn a year of additional revenues.We will give people the jobs and opportunities that allow them to stay. Highly skilled students educated at Scottish universities would remain in their country. The resulting revenues can be reinvested in growth, in building a more equal society and in developing more homegrown firms.If we remain under Westminster, Scotland will continue as a regional economy with the inherent risk that jobs and wealth flows out of the country. As an independent country Scotland will be an open, flexible economy trading with the rest of the world. Ensuring we benefit from our own wealth doesn't involve putting up barriers. It is about having the tools to steward your economy properly.With independence we can marry the talents of the Scottish people to the natural wealth of our nation and, as the Scottish government set out this week, we can take the steps that are necessary to grow our economy, increase productivity and increase the opportunities for young people to pursue their careers in Scotland.It is time for Scotland to take its future into its own hands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland is wealthy. An independent Scotland would be fairer | John Swinney"},{"date": "2014-05-30T17:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland approaches the referendum on independence \u2013 in just over 100 days' time \u2013 and we consider the opportunity a yes vote can offer, there is absolutely no doubt that it is a wealthy country. We have extraordinary resources and natural talent.That fact has been clearly established by Scotland being the richest part of the UK outside London and the south-east, even when we exclude our oil and gas wealth. Scotland would have been ranked 14th in the OECD in terms of output per head in 2012 and among the richest in the world in terms of gross national income. The CPPR's figures show that even on its lowest assessment Scotland would be in the top 20 of the OECD in terms of wealth per head. On Scottish government figures Scotland would be wealthier per head than France, Japan and the UK.That is not surprising \u2013 we have top universities, we are a hotbed of life sciences, our food and drink industry is world class, we have key strengths in growth sectors such as creative industries, and we have 25% of the EU's offshore wind potential and nearly 60% of the EU's oil reserves.So no matter which measure you use, the wealth of Scotland is undeniable. The issue at the heart of the referendum debate is not whether we are wealthy enough to be an independent country but how we ensure that wealth properly benefits the people of Scotland.The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way. Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence.The fact that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar-sized countries \u2013 is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.A comparison between the handling of oil and gas revenues by the UK and Norwegian governments demonstrates the problem. Norway not only established an oil fund to ensure that its citizens would benefit indefinitely from their natural resources \u2013 something the UK has singularly failed to do \u2013 it also ensured that as the industry developed, domestic businesses were supported to play their part in it. Norway's oil savings fund is now the biggest sovereign wealth fund on the planet, worth more than \u00a3500bn; Scotland's oil fund stands at zero.That is not to say Scotland isn't doing well. We have some excellent homegrown firms, and in the oil and gas industry businesses like the Wood Group are world leaders. Aberdeen Asset Management is now one of the world's largest investment managers, and companies like Alexander Dennis are pioneering low-carbon technology and exporting their products around the world. But we can achieve more.The current situation has come about because decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland. I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job. This week the Scottish government set out some of our ambitions for Scotland.If within 15 years we can improve our productivity growth by just 0.3 percentage points a year, increase our employment rate by around three percentage points, and boost our working-age population, then we can generate at least \u00a35bn a year of additional revenues.We will give people the jobs and opportunities that allow them to stay. Highly skilled students educated at Scottish universities would remain in their country. The resulting revenues can be reinvested in growth, in building a more equal society and in developing more homegrown firms.If we remain under Westminster, Scotland will continue as a regional economy with the inherent risk that jobs and wealth flows out of the country. As an independent country Scotland will be an open, flexible economy trading with the rest of the world. Ensuring we benefit from our own wealth doesn't involve putting up barriers. It is about having the tools to steward your economy properly.With independence we can marry the talents of the Scottish people to the natural wealth of our nation and, as the Scottish government set out this week, we can take the steps that are necessary to grow our economy, increase productivity and increase the opportunities for young people to pursue their careers in Scotland.It is time for Scotland to take its future into its own hands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland is wealthy. An independent Scotland would be fairer | John Swinney"},{"date": "2014-06-19T18:15:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Harold Wilson campaigned in 1970, a very young Conservative flung an egg which broke against him. Wilson showed humour and decency by shouting, \"Don't touch that boy! Let him go! He should be bowling for England!\"In 2010 David Cameron's government removed funds from youth centres, thus closing one in Cameron's constituency where a 12\u2013year-old boy met his friends. On the internet the boy invited other youths to picket the prime minister's constituency office, thereby using modern technology to promote a local democratic protest. Police went to the boy's school, took him from his class, and in the presence of a teacher (not his parents) told him that if public disorder happened outside Cameron's office he would be arrested, even if not present. He was told that armed police would be\u00a0present, and hold him responsible if\u00a0this led to physical injuries.The UK is coming to resemble the USSR, treating citizens as potential enemies unless wholly obedient to the nations' bosses. That the police carry guns; may stop and search anyone without a warrant, and sometimes without reason; that people can be sentenced for crimes without corroborating witnesses; that folk are\u00a0invited to spy on their neighbours and inform the police without being identified in court, are a few of the signs\u00a0that the UK is going bad.I once thought Britain a safe place, being born in 1934 and living on one of the best planned of Glasgow housing estates. Riddrie had nearly every social amenity, unlike later estates built without most of them. Riddrie gave me the lifelong illusion of belonging to Britain's middle class, as all our neighbours were fully employed between two world wars. My father had a small government pension for a wound received in the first war, supplementing his wage as a\u00a0factory worker. His hobby was being unpaid secretary for such semi-socialist organisations as the Scottish Youth Hostel Association. This got him work as\u00a0manager of a hostel for munition workers from 1940-45.He never had such a well-paid job again, but my health and excellent further education were provided by our\u00a0welfare state, which the war created. \"The only good government is a bad one in a hell of a fright,\" said the hero of Joyce Cary's best novel, The\u00a0Horse's Mouth. After the Wall Street crash and a worldwide trade depression, from 1931 Britain had been ruled by a mainly rightwing coalition. It led Britain into the second world war by appeasing Mussolini, Hitler and Franco, but on finding itself the only government fighting fascism in Europe, it rapidly nationalised all Britain. Through agreement with banks and trade unions it controlled industries, and froze profits, prices and wages. Despite severe rationing, British children who grew up during the war were healthier at the end than they had been since public health records began around 1900. Children in other lands did worse.So the 1945 general election overwhelmingly voted for a Labour government that promised to keep Britain nationalised. Being Labour supporters, my father and I naively believed Britain had achieved a peaceful, democratic socialist revolution, unlike the USSR \u2013 an undemocratic police state \u2013 and better than the US, which was ruled by millionaires. But our government had acquired coalmines, railways and other industries through buying company shares at a high price from owners glad to sell them. The\u00a0shares were no longer profitable. And nearly everyone running our nationalised industries belonged to the same rich class as their former owners. That is why Margaret\u00a0Thatcher's denationalisations went\u00a0so smoothly.I began voting Scottish Nationalist in the 1970s, on seeing that, even with a Labour government, the English part of the UK was not going to promote social welfare by publicly owning the nation's oil. I hoped self-government would win for Scotland the level of social liberty, equality and fraternity enjoyed by\u00a0Norway. A referendum held in 1979 showed 51.6% of Scots wanted that too; 48.4% did not. This followed a campaign where leaders of the Tory and Labour parties united to announce that a Scots parliament would cause a huge withdrawal of capital, resulting in the loss of Scotland's major industries. But\u00a0the Labour party in Westminster had decided that those who chose not to\u00a0vote would be counted with those who voted against, so the winners of the race lost it. Then the threatened withdrawal of capital and loss of industry happened anyway.A devolved parliament became Tony Blair's gift to Scotland in 1999, when another referendum showed a bigger majority wanted one. When Lady Thatcher was asked what she thought her greatest achievement was, she replied, \"Tony Blair and New Labour\". Exactly. Like US citizens, the UK electorate has no chance of voting for a party which will do anything to seriously tax our enlarged millionaire class that controls Westminster.If a yes victory in the September referendum gives Scotland an independent parliament with its own taxation powers, maybe Alex Salmond will start using them to equalise social benefits. Perhaps. I am disgusted by his\u00a0support of Kenny MacAskill, the justice minister who is bringing Scots' law into line with England's.The next Scottish election will be in 2016. I hope it will return a separate parliament of MSPs with independent minds who do not represent big business. May\u00a0they thoroughly and publicly debate important measures, and vote upon them without regard to former party allegiances. That should let us try to do better. There is no chance of a\u00a0better Scotland ruled from London. That is why many English who have come to live here will vote yes at the referendum.\u2022 Alasdair Gray's new book Independence: An Argument for Home Rule is out now, published by Canongate", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Welfare"], "title": "London rule can't deliver a better Scotland | Alasdair Gray"},{"date": "2014-05-30T17:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland approaches the referendum on independence \u2013 in just over 100 days' time \u2013 and we consider the opportunity a yes vote can offer, there is absolutely no doubt that it is a wealthy country. We have extraordinary resources and natural talent.That fact has been clearly established by Scotland being the richest part of the UK outside London and the south-east, even when we exclude our oil and gas wealth. Scotland would have been ranked 14th in the OECD in terms of output per head in 2012 and among the richest in the world in terms of gross national income. The CPPR's figures show that even on its lowest assessment Scotland would be in the top 20 of the OECD in terms of wealth per head. On Scottish government figures Scotland would be wealthier per head than France, Japan and the UK.That is not surprising \u2013 we have top universities, we are a hotbed of life sciences, our food and drink industry is world class, we have key strengths in growth sectors such as creative industries, and we have 25% of the EU's offshore wind potential and nearly 60% of the EU's oil reserves.So no matter which measure you use, the wealth of Scotland is undeniable. The issue at the heart of the referendum debate is not whether we are wealthy enough to be an independent country but how we ensure that wealth properly benefits the people of Scotland.The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way. Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence.The fact that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar-sized countries \u2013 is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.A comparison between the handling of oil and gas revenues by the UK and Norwegian governments demonstrates the problem. Norway not only established an oil fund to ensure that its citizens would benefit indefinitely from their natural resources \u2013 something the UK has singularly failed to do \u2013 it also ensured that as the industry developed, domestic businesses were supported to play their part in it. Norway's oil savings fund is now the biggest sovereign wealth fund on the planet, worth more than \u00a3500bn; Scotland's oil fund stands at zero.That is not to say Scotland isn't doing well. We have some excellent homegrown firms, and in the oil and gas industry businesses like the Wood Group are world leaders. Aberdeen Asset Management is now one of the world's largest investment managers, and companies like Alexander Dennis are pioneering low-carbon technology and exporting their products around the world. But we can achieve more.The current situation has come about because decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland. I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job. This week the Scottish government set out some of our ambitions for Scotland.If within 15 years we can improve our productivity growth by just 0.3 percentage points a year, increase our employment rate by around three percentage points, and boost our working-age population, then we can generate at least \u00a35bn a year of additional revenues.We will give people the jobs and opportunities that allow them to stay. Highly skilled students educated at Scottish universities would remain in their country. The resulting revenues can be reinvested in growth, in building a more equal society and in developing more homegrown firms.If we remain under Westminster, Scotland will continue as a regional economy with the inherent risk that jobs and wealth flows out of the country. As an independent country Scotland will be an open, flexible economy trading with the rest of the world. Ensuring we benefit from our own wealth doesn't involve putting up barriers. It is about having the tools to steward your economy properly.With independence we can marry the talents of the Scottish people to the natural wealth of our nation and, as the Scottish government set out this week, we can take the steps that are necessary to grow our economy, increase productivity and increase the opportunities for young people to pursue their careers in Scotland.It is time for Scotland to take its future into its own hands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland is wealthy. An independent Scotland would be fairer | John Swinney"},{"date": "2014-06-19T18:15:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Harold Wilson campaigned in 1970, a very young Conservative flung an egg which broke against him. Wilson showed humour and decency by shouting, \"Don't touch that boy! Let him go! He should be bowling for England!\"In 2010 David Cameron's government removed funds from youth centres, thus closing one in Cameron's constituency where a 12\u2013year-old boy met his friends. On the internet the boy invited other youths to picket the prime minister's constituency office, thereby using modern technology to promote a local democratic protest. Police went to the boy's school, took him from his class, and in the presence of a teacher (not his parents) told him that if public disorder happened outside Cameron's office he would be arrested, even if not present. He was told that armed police would be\u00a0present, and hold him responsible if\u00a0this led to physical injuries.The UK is coming to resemble the USSR, treating citizens as potential enemies unless wholly obedient to the nations' bosses. That the police carry guns; may stop and search anyone without a warrant, and sometimes without reason; that people can be sentenced for crimes without corroborating witnesses; that folk are\u00a0invited to spy on their neighbours and inform the police without being identified in court, are a few of the signs\u00a0that the UK is going bad.I once thought Britain a safe place, being born in 1934 and living on one of the best planned of Glasgow housing estates. Riddrie had nearly every social amenity, unlike later estates built without most of them. Riddrie gave me the lifelong illusion of belonging to Britain's middle class, as all our neighbours were fully employed between two world wars. My father had a small government pension for a wound received in the first war, supplementing his wage as a\u00a0factory worker. His hobby was being unpaid secretary for such semi-socialist organisations as the Scottish Youth Hostel Association. This got him work as\u00a0manager of a hostel for munition workers from 1940-45.He never had such a well-paid job again, but my health and excellent further education were provided by our\u00a0welfare state, which the war created. \"The only good government is a bad one in a hell of a fright,\" said the hero of Joyce Cary's best novel, The\u00a0Horse's Mouth. After the Wall Street crash and a worldwide trade depression, from 1931 Britain had been ruled by a mainly rightwing coalition. It led Britain into the second world war by appeasing Mussolini, Hitler and Franco, but on finding itself the only government fighting fascism in Europe, it rapidly nationalised all Britain. Through agreement with banks and trade unions it controlled industries, and froze profits, prices and wages. Despite severe rationing, British children who grew up during the war were healthier at the end than they had been since public health records began around 1900. Children in other lands did worse.So the 1945 general election overwhelmingly voted for a Labour government that promised to keep Britain nationalised. Being Labour supporters, my father and I naively believed Britain had achieved a peaceful, democratic socialist revolution, unlike the USSR \u2013 an undemocratic police state \u2013 and better than the US, which was ruled by millionaires. But our government had acquired coalmines, railways and other industries through buying company shares at a high price from owners glad to sell them. The\u00a0shares were no longer profitable. And nearly everyone running our nationalised industries belonged to the same rich class as their former owners. That is why Margaret\u00a0Thatcher's denationalisations went\u00a0so smoothly.I began voting Scottish Nationalist in the 1970s, on seeing that, even with a Labour government, the English part of the UK was not going to promote social welfare by publicly owning the nation's oil. I hoped self-government would win for Scotland the level of social liberty, equality and fraternity enjoyed by\u00a0Norway. A referendum held in 1979 showed 51.6% of Scots wanted that too; 48.4% did not. This followed a campaign where leaders of the Tory and Labour parties united to announce that a Scots parliament would cause a huge withdrawal of capital, resulting in the loss of Scotland's major industries. But\u00a0the Labour party in Westminster had decided that those who chose not to\u00a0vote would be counted with those who voted against, so the winners of the race lost it. Then the threatened withdrawal of capital and loss of industry happened anyway.A devolved parliament became Tony Blair's gift to Scotland in 1999, when another referendum showed a bigger majority wanted one. When Lady Thatcher was asked what she thought her greatest achievement was, she replied, \"Tony Blair and New Labour\". Exactly. Like US citizens, the UK electorate has no chance of voting for a party which will do anything to seriously tax our enlarged millionaire class that controls Westminster.If a yes victory in the September referendum gives Scotland an independent parliament with its own taxation powers, maybe Alex Salmond will start using them to equalise social benefits. Perhaps. I am disgusted by his\u00a0support of Kenny MacAskill, the justice minister who is bringing Scots' law into line with England's.The next Scottish election will be in 2016. I hope it will return a separate parliament of MSPs with independent minds who do not represent big business. May\u00a0they thoroughly and publicly debate important measures, and vote upon them without regard to former party allegiances. That should let us try to do better. There is no chance of a\u00a0better Scotland ruled from London. That is why many English who have come to live here will vote yes at the referendum.\u2022 Alasdair Gray's new book Independence: An Argument for Home Rule is out now, published by Canongate", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Welfare"], "title": "London rule can't deliver a better Scotland | Alasdair Gray"},{"date": "2014-06-08T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Our ukulele instructor exhorts us to let go of our inhibitions, and launches into song. \"That's it G,C,G,D, \u2026 G,C,G,D ...'In the jungle, the mighty jungle, the lion sleeps tonight \u2026'\"While the group strums along, delighting in the collective endeavour, I find myself thinking of the Clash, and wondering if I could get away with grabbing my uke by the neck and smashing it down in the middle of the circle of joy.I'm in a Georgian country house by an ancient Caledonian forest in the Cairngorms, drinking mulled wine and strumming the small instrument favoured by George Formby in an attempt to rediscover the \"good life\". While Tom and Barbara may have nailed it by growing their own veg and winding up Margot and Jerry, Polly and Ross Cameron at the Dell of Abernethy near Aviemore are hoping that their beautiful setting and a range of hearty activities \u2013 including seasonal yoga, bread-making and, yes, ukulele sessions \u2013 will be just as effective.Aviemore is the gateway to the Cairngorms and is the region's snow sports base, but the ancient forests, rivers and lochs provide enough incentive to visit year-round. The Camerons, who run a holiday home business in the area, think so \u2013 which is why they decided to host four weekends a year, each designed to harness the talents of local residents and share the seasonal delights of the area. A weekend package includes all classes, food and copious amounts to drink, but non-participating partners can come along for a reduced fee, and locals, or those passing through, can sign up for individual classes.Things starts well, with whisky in the lurid lounge car of the Scotrail Caledonian sleeper from London to the Highlands. When I wake up, grey concrete and sprawling suburbs have been replaced by snow-capped mountains and dawn-illuminated clouds. If there is a better way to start a holiday, I've yet to find it.Bleary-eyed but happy, I'm met at Aviemore by Ross, who apologises immediately. \"Sorry, I was meant to pick you up in a\u00a0Morris Minor \u2013 a bit more Barbara and Tom \u2013 but it wouldn't start, so I had to bring this,\" he says, pointing to a\u00a0beautiful, vintage cream Daimler.We wind down narrow, pine-flanked roads until we arrive at a collection of holiday cottages grouped around a\u00a0Georgian country house. The morning air is fresh, clouds stretch across a blue sky and the only noise comes from the birds and wind in the trees. The house itself is a treasure, restored and stripped back by the pair, who have the stylist's knack for coupling antiques with modern classics. In the sitting room, there's a fire in the grate, books on the shelves and whisky in the cabinet, while the elegant staircase leads to four large bedrooms (plus a single) and a drawing room. Guests can also stay in cute self-catering cottages with log fires, comfy beds and 50s kitsch.I spend the day reading next to the fire and walking around the sparkling water of a nearby loch and, by early evening, meet the other guests: nursery teacher Louise from south London, and Fiona and Michael, a\u00a0jovial couple from Elie, who run a shop named, excellently, Feather Your Nest.Unsurprisingly, they take to the first ukulele session like ducks to water and Louise has even done it before. Despite my obvious ineptitude, Scottish folk musician Hector MacInnes is patient and, when it is over, the session does seem to have worked some magic. As we gather around the huge kitchen table, it is as though, disconcertingly, we've been transformed into friends via the power of the uke \u2013 and the effects of a startlingly good dinner. This involves a perfectly balanced salad of pomegranate, goats cheese and candied walnuts, followed by melt-in-the-mouth shin of beef and fondant potatoes, and finished with one of my favourites: lemon posset.The next day starts early with \"seasonal\" yoga run by the beatific Dominque Picot. With the fire crackling and the sky slowly awakening outside, we rub our kidneys and stretch out our stress. Previously, trying to find inner peace in a draughty sports hall has proved beyond my capabilities. But here, somehow, it happens. Remember, Dominique says, the peace you feel now is always inside you. I feel strangely emotional afterwards, happy to have a few moments of fireside solitude before the next activity.During our bread-making class, run by chef and baker Pamela Brunton, we learn about the alchemy of yeast, enzymes and glutens, and I'm left with two overriding impressions. One: making sourdough takes a very long time. Two: it is worth it. I suspect I\u00a0am too impatient to ever make my own again, but I'm delighted when it's served in abundance at lunch, alongside homemade soup, local cheese and ham.Polly and Ross, whose warmth and generosity of spirit bind this weekend like the glutens in the sourdough, took over the running of the Dell a few years ago after overseeing a hotel in Bali and their own restaurant in Aviemore. The pair are full of ideas for the future, with forthcoming workshops offering woodland yoga, a masterclass in fruit and vegetable growing and acapella singing, as well as a paddle on the Spey.The key is that the activities draw you into the surroundings, engage you over dinner, and stimulate mind and body. After yoga on Sunday, we get on mountain bikes and spend an exhilarating few hours going through the forest. \"I think people are starting to realise that checking your phone all the time doesn't make you feel great,\" says Louise. \"This,\" she adds, spraying through mud, \"makes you feel great.\"I leave slightly less cynical, and more rested, than when I arrived. Did I\u00a0find the good life? Well, I laughed a lot, ate and drank well, slept, and learned new things \u2013 even if mastering the uke was an ask too far. If that's not the good life, it's certainly pretty close.\u2022 The trip was provided by The Dell of Abernathy (01479 821643, holiday-cairngorm.co.uk). Fully catered weekends on the Good Life Workshop cost \u00a3425 full-board (or \u00a3275 for non-participating partners). Travel from London to Aviemore was provided by Scotrail on the Caledonian Sleeper (0845 601 5929, scotrail.co.uk); seats from \u00a337.50 one-way, standard berths from \u00a368.10 one-way, though a limited number of \"Bargain Berth\" one-way fares are also available from \u00a319", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Learning holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Cottages", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "A 'Good Life' weekend in Aviemore, Scotland"},{"date": "2014-05-30T17:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland approaches the referendum on independence \u2013 in just over 100 days' time \u2013 and we consider the opportunity a yes vote can offer, there is absolutely no doubt that it is a wealthy country. We have extraordinary resources and natural talent.That fact has been clearly established by Scotland being the richest part of the UK outside London and the south-east, even when we exclude our oil and gas wealth. Scotland would have been ranked 14th in the OECD in terms of output per head in 2012 and among the richest in the world in terms of gross national income. The CPPR's figures show that even on its lowest assessment Scotland would be in the top 20 of the OECD in terms of wealth per head. On Scottish government figures Scotland would be wealthier per head than France, Japan and the UK.That is not surprising \u2013 we have top universities, we are a hotbed of life sciences, our food and drink industry is world class, we have key strengths in growth sectors such as creative industries, and we have 25% of the EU's offshore wind potential and nearly 60% of the EU's oil reserves.So no matter which measure you use, the wealth of Scotland is undeniable. The issue at the heart of the referendum debate is not whether we are wealthy enough to be an independent country but how we ensure that wealth properly benefits the people of Scotland.The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way. Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence.The fact that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar-sized countries \u2013 is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.A comparison between the handling of oil and gas revenues by the UK and Norwegian governments demonstrates the problem. Norway not only established an oil fund to ensure that its citizens would benefit indefinitely from their natural resources \u2013 something the UK has singularly failed to do \u2013 it also ensured that as the industry developed, domestic businesses were supported to play their part in it. Norway's oil savings fund is now the biggest sovereign wealth fund on the planet, worth more than \u00a3500bn; Scotland's oil fund stands at zero.That is not to say Scotland isn't doing well. We have some excellent homegrown firms, and in the oil and gas industry businesses like the Wood Group are world leaders. Aberdeen Asset Management is now one of the world's largest investment managers, and companies like Alexander Dennis are pioneering low-carbon technology and exporting their products around the world. But we can achieve more.The current situation has come about because decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland. I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job. This week the Scottish government set out some of our ambitions for Scotland.If within 15 years we can improve our productivity growth by just 0.3 percentage points a year, increase our employment rate by around three percentage points, and boost our working-age population, then we can generate at least \u00a35bn a year of additional revenues.We will give people the jobs and opportunities that allow them to stay. Highly skilled students educated at Scottish universities would remain in their country. The resulting revenues can be reinvested in growth, in building a more equal society and in developing more homegrown firms.If we remain under Westminster, Scotland will continue as a regional economy with the inherent risk that jobs and wealth flows out of the country. As an independent country Scotland will be an open, flexible economy trading with the rest of the world. Ensuring we benefit from our own wealth doesn't involve putting up barriers. It is about having the tools to steward your economy properly.With independence we can marry the talents of the Scottish people to the natural wealth of our nation and, as the Scottish government set out this week, we can take the steps that are necessary to grow our economy, increase productivity and increase the opportunities for young people to pursue their careers in Scotland.It is time for Scotland to take its future into its own hands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland is wealthy. An independent Scotland would be fairer | John Swinney"},{"date": "2014-06-19T18:15:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Harold Wilson campaigned in 1970, a very young Conservative flung an egg which broke against him. Wilson showed humour and decency by shouting, \"Don't touch that boy! Let him go! He should be bowling for England!\"In 2010 David Cameron's government removed funds from youth centres, thus closing one in Cameron's constituency where a 12\u2013year-old boy met his friends. On the internet the boy invited other youths to picket the prime minister's constituency office, thereby using modern technology to promote a local democratic protest. Police went to the boy's school, took him from his class, and in the presence of a teacher (not his parents) told him that if public disorder happened outside Cameron's office he would be arrested, even if not present. He was told that armed police would be\u00a0present, and hold him responsible if\u00a0this led to physical injuries.The UK is coming to resemble the USSR, treating citizens as potential enemies unless wholly obedient to the nations' bosses. That the police carry guns; may stop and search anyone without a warrant, and sometimes without reason; that people can be sentenced for crimes without corroborating witnesses; that folk are\u00a0invited to spy on their neighbours and inform the police without being identified in court, are a few of the signs\u00a0that the UK is going bad.I once thought Britain a safe place, being born in 1934 and living on one of the best planned of Glasgow housing estates. Riddrie had nearly every social amenity, unlike later estates built without most of them. Riddrie gave me the lifelong illusion of belonging to Britain's middle class, as all our neighbours were fully employed between two world wars. My father had a small government pension for a wound received in the first war, supplementing his wage as a\u00a0factory worker. His hobby was being unpaid secretary for such semi-socialist organisations as the Scottish Youth Hostel Association. This got him work as\u00a0manager of a hostel for munition workers from 1940-45.He never had such a well-paid job again, but my health and excellent further education were provided by our\u00a0welfare state, which the war created. \"The only good government is a bad one in a hell of a fright,\" said the hero of Joyce Cary's best novel, The\u00a0Horse's Mouth. After the Wall Street crash and a worldwide trade depression, from 1931 Britain had been ruled by a mainly rightwing coalition. It led Britain into the second world war by appeasing Mussolini, Hitler and Franco, but on finding itself the only government fighting fascism in Europe, it rapidly nationalised all Britain. Through agreement with banks and trade unions it controlled industries, and froze profits, prices and wages. Despite severe rationing, British children who grew up during the war were healthier at the end than they had been since public health records began around 1900. Children in other lands did worse.So the 1945 general election overwhelmingly voted for a Labour government that promised to keep Britain nationalised. Being Labour supporters, my father and I naively believed Britain had achieved a peaceful, democratic socialist revolution, unlike the USSR \u2013 an undemocratic police state \u2013 and better than the US, which was ruled by millionaires. But our government had acquired coalmines, railways and other industries through buying company shares at a high price from owners glad to sell them. The\u00a0shares were no longer profitable. And nearly everyone running our nationalised industries belonged to the same rich class as their former owners. That is why Margaret\u00a0Thatcher's denationalisations went\u00a0so smoothly.I began voting Scottish Nationalist in the 1970s, on seeing that, even with a Labour government, the English part of the UK was not going to promote social welfare by publicly owning the nation's oil. I hoped self-government would win for Scotland the level of social liberty, equality and fraternity enjoyed by\u00a0Norway. A referendum held in 1979 showed 51.6% of Scots wanted that too; 48.4% did not. This followed a campaign where leaders of the Tory and Labour parties united to announce that a Scots parliament would cause a huge withdrawal of capital, resulting in the loss of Scotland's major industries. But\u00a0the Labour party in Westminster had decided that those who chose not to\u00a0vote would be counted with those who voted against, so the winners of the race lost it. Then the threatened withdrawal of capital and loss of industry happened anyway.A devolved parliament became Tony Blair's gift to Scotland in 1999, when another referendum showed a bigger majority wanted one. When Lady Thatcher was asked what she thought her greatest achievement was, she replied, \"Tony Blair and New Labour\". Exactly. Like US citizens, the UK electorate has no chance of voting for a party which will do anything to seriously tax our enlarged millionaire class that controls Westminster.If a yes victory in the September referendum gives Scotland an independent parliament with its own taxation powers, maybe Alex Salmond will start using them to equalise social benefits. Perhaps. I am disgusted by his\u00a0support of Kenny MacAskill, the justice minister who is bringing Scots' law into line with England's.The next Scottish election will be in 2016. I hope it will return a separate parliament of MSPs with independent minds who do not represent big business. May\u00a0they thoroughly and publicly debate important measures, and vote upon them without regard to former party allegiances. That should let us try to do better. There is no chance of a\u00a0better Scotland ruled from London. That is why many English who have come to live here will vote yes at the referendum.\u2022 Alasdair Gray's new book Independence: An Argument for Home Rule is out now, published by Canongate", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Welfare"], "title": "London rule can't deliver a better Scotland | Alasdair Gray"},{"date": "2014-06-08T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Our ukulele instructor exhorts us to let go of our inhibitions, and launches into song. \"That's it G,C,G,D, \u2026 G,C,G,D ...'In the jungle, the mighty jungle, the lion sleeps tonight \u2026'\"While the group strums along, delighting in the collective endeavour, I find myself thinking of the Clash, and wondering if I could get away with grabbing my uke by the neck and smashing it down in the middle of the circle of joy.I'm in a Georgian country house by an ancient Caledonian forest in the Cairngorms, drinking mulled wine and strumming the small instrument favoured by George Formby in an attempt to rediscover the \"good life\". While Tom and Barbara may have nailed it by growing their own veg and winding up Margot and Jerry, Polly and Ross Cameron at the Dell of Abernethy near Aviemore are hoping that their beautiful setting and a range of hearty activities \u2013 including seasonal yoga, bread-making and, yes, ukulele sessions \u2013 will be just as effective.Aviemore is the gateway to the Cairngorms and is the region's snow sports base, but the ancient forests, rivers and lochs provide enough incentive to visit year-round. The Camerons, who run a holiday home business in the area, think so \u2013 which is why they decided to host four weekends a year, each designed to harness the talents of local residents and share the seasonal delights of the area. A weekend package includes all classes, food and copious amounts to drink, but non-participating partners can come along for a reduced fee, and locals, or those passing through, can sign up for individual classes.Things starts well, with whisky in the lurid lounge car of the Scotrail Caledonian sleeper from London to the Highlands. When I wake up, grey concrete and sprawling suburbs have been replaced by snow-capped mountains and dawn-illuminated clouds. If there is a better way to start a holiday, I've yet to find it.Bleary-eyed but happy, I'm met at Aviemore by Ross, who apologises immediately. \"Sorry, I was meant to pick you up in a\u00a0Morris Minor \u2013 a bit more Barbara and Tom \u2013 but it wouldn't start, so I had to bring this,\" he says, pointing to a\u00a0beautiful, vintage cream Daimler.We wind down narrow, pine-flanked roads until we arrive at a collection of holiday cottages grouped around a\u00a0Georgian country house. The morning air is fresh, clouds stretch across a blue sky and the only noise comes from the birds and wind in the trees. The house itself is a treasure, restored and stripped back by the pair, who have the stylist's knack for coupling antiques with modern classics. In the sitting room, there's a fire in the grate, books on the shelves and whisky in the cabinet, while the elegant staircase leads to four large bedrooms (plus a single) and a drawing room. Guests can also stay in cute self-catering cottages with log fires, comfy beds and 50s kitsch.I spend the day reading next to the fire and walking around the sparkling water of a nearby loch and, by early evening, meet the other guests: nursery teacher Louise from south London, and Fiona and Michael, a\u00a0jovial couple from Elie, who run a shop named, excellently, Feather Your Nest.Unsurprisingly, they take to the first ukulele session like ducks to water and Louise has even done it before. Despite my obvious ineptitude, Scottish folk musician Hector MacInnes is patient and, when it is over, the session does seem to have worked some magic. As we gather around the huge kitchen table, it is as though, disconcertingly, we've been transformed into friends via the power of the uke \u2013 and the effects of a startlingly good dinner. This involves a perfectly balanced salad of pomegranate, goats cheese and candied walnuts, followed by melt-in-the-mouth shin of beef and fondant potatoes, and finished with one of my favourites: lemon posset.The next day starts early with \"seasonal\" yoga run by the beatific Dominque Picot. With the fire crackling and the sky slowly awakening outside, we rub our kidneys and stretch out our stress. Previously, trying to find inner peace in a draughty sports hall has proved beyond my capabilities. But here, somehow, it happens. Remember, Dominique says, the peace you feel now is always inside you. I feel strangely emotional afterwards, happy to have a few moments of fireside solitude before the next activity.During our bread-making class, run by chef and baker Pamela Brunton, we learn about the alchemy of yeast, enzymes and glutens, and I'm left with two overriding impressions. One: making sourdough takes a very long time. Two: it is worth it. I suspect I\u00a0am too impatient to ever make my own again, but I'm delighted when it's served in abundance at lunch, alongside homemade soup, local cheese and ham.Polly and Ross, whose warmth and generosity of spirit bind this weekend like the glutens in the sourdough, took over the running of the Dell a few years ago after overseeing a hotel in Bali and their own restaurant in Aviemore. The pair are full of ideas for the future, with forthcoming workshops offering woodland yoga, a masterclass in fruit and vegetable growing and acapella singing, as well as a paddle on the Spey.The key is that the activities draw you into the surroundings, engage you over dinner, and stimulate mind and body. After yoga on Sunday, we get on mountain bikes and spend an exhilarating few hours going through the forest. \"I think people are starting to realise that checking your phone all the time doesn't make you feel great,\" says Louise. \"This,\" she adds, spraying through mud, \"makes you feel great.\"I leave slightly less cynical, and more rested, than when I arrived. Did I\u00a0find the good life? Well, I laughed a lot, ate and drank well, slept, and learned new things \u2013 even if mastering the uke was an ask too far. If that's not the good life, it's certainly pretty close.\u2022 The trip was provided by The Dell of Abernathy (01479 821643, holiday-cairngorm.co.uk). Fully catered weekends on the Good Life Workshop cost \u00a3425 full-board (or \u00a3275 for non-participating partners). Travel from London to Aviemore was provided by Scotrail on the Caledonian Sleeper (0845 601 5929, scotrail.co.uk); seats from \u00a337.50 one-way, standard berths from \u00a368.10 one-way, though a limited number of \"Bargain Berth\" one-way fares are also available from \u00a319", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Learning holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Cottages", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "A 'Good Life' weekend in Aviemore, Scotland"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:38:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, said new evidence about the impact of a high level of foreign ownership on Scotland's wealth had made the case for independence even stronger.Swinney said a Guardian special report on the high level of foreign and UK control over significant parts of the Scottish economy had established that Scotland needed new tax, economic and borrowing powers to keep its wealth within the country and to boost domestic industry.\"Anyone looking at these figures, who recognises that the people of Scotland are not receiving the full benefit of our wealth, must surely accept that this has come about at a time when decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland,\" Swinney wrote for the Guardian's Comment is Free. \"I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job.\"A study by Glasgow University academics, commissioned by the Guardian, found that Scotland's actual wealth \u2013 the money kept within the country \u2013 was up to $5,000 (\u00a32,990) per head lower than the GDP figures repeatedly cited by Alex Salmond, the first minister, and the Yes Scotland campaign in its drive for independence.It also emerged, in a separate Guardian investigation, that almost none of the North Sea oil from Scottish waters is owned by Scottish companies, while more than 80% of whisky and salmon production is foreign-owned, and only a third of the Scottish-based finance sector is Scottish-owned.Scottish government statisticians have disputed the findings by two academics at the University of Glasgow, John McLaren and Jo Armstrong, that the actual wealth is as low as $5,000 by looking at the gross national income (GNI), which assesses the money kept inside a country rather than GDP. They said their own methodology, in which the wealth falls by $2,000 when using GNI rather than GDP, is more robust.Swinney said any of those figures established that Scotland was in the top 20 of world economies, but it could do better. \"The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way,\" he said. \"Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence. The very fact that we have high levels of ownership in Scotland from the rest of the UK and overseas, that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar sized countries - is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.\"Alistair Carmichael, the Scottish secretary, said the new assessment of Scotland's national income raised profound questions about the Scottish government's case for independence, in a week where its oil forecasts had been downgraded and it refused to publish any costings for setting up a new independent state.\"The past couple of days have shown the economics of independence in a stark and unforgiving light,\" he said.The dispute came as the referendum campaigns entered the official and legally controlled, 16-week referendum campaign period, with a weekend of intensive doorstep canvassing and leafletting, and street stalls. The lead pro-independence campaign, Yes Scotland, which is trailing in the polls by between five and 20 points, has plans for 150 events this weekend.Better Together says donations since then have soared, buoyed in large part by a reaction against the substantial gifts by the Weirs to the Yes campaign and Scottish National party, which have now totalled \u00a35.5m since 2011.Further funding details are not expected from either campaign until formally published by the Electoral Commission this summer, but their current declarations show they have spent a minimum of \u00a34.66m already on campaigning, office costs and staffing.A large number of smaller campaigns, a majority of which are expected to be backing independence, will be registered with the Electoral Commission, pushing the potential spending up by several million pounds more. Each of those will be allowed to spend up to \u00a3150,000 each.Ten of these other campaigns are now formally registered by the Electoral Commission, including the pro-independence National Collective group of young artists, the pro-yes Scottish Socialist party and the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, which wants independence to help close the Trident nuclear base on the Clyde.One pro-UK campaign, Vote No Borders, has already spent more than \u00a3250,000 on a series of cinema, newspaper and billboard adverts and filming anti-independence voters, and is planning to spend its full legal limit of \u00a3150,000 during the regulated period by raising further funds.Stuart Campbell, a pro-independence blogger at Wings over Scotland, who has applied to be registered as a Yes campaigner, has already raised \u00a3155,000 for his website, campaigning and opinion polling. He has calculated that smaller and fringe pro-independence groups have raised at least \u00a3345,000 from public appeals since February 2013.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland independence case 'strengthened by foreign wealth'"},{"date": "2014-05-30T17:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland approaches the referendum on independence \u2013 in just over 100 days' time \u2013 and we consider the opportunity a yes vote can offer, there is absolutely no doubt that it is a wealthy country. We have extraordinary resources and natural talent.That fact has been clearly established by Scotland being the richest part of the UK outside London and the south-east, even when we exclude our oil and gas wealth. Scotland would have been ranked 14th in the OECD in terms of output per head in 2012 and among the richest in the world in terms of gross national income. The CPPR's figures show that even on its lowest assessment Scotland would be in the top 20 of the OECD in terms of wealth per head. On Scottish government figures Scotland would be wealthier per head than France, Japan and the UK.That is not surprising \u2013 we have top universities, we are a hotbed of life sciences, our food and drink industry is world class, we have key strengths in growth sectors such as creative industries, and we have 25% of the EU's offshore wind potential and nearly 60% of the EU's oil reserves.So no matter which measure you use, the wealth of Scotland is undeniable. The issue at the heart of the referendum debate is not whether we are wealthy enough to be an independent country but how we ensure that wealth properly benefits the people of Scotland.The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way. Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence.The fact that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar-sized countries \u2013 is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.A comparison between the handling of oil and gas revenues by the UK and Norwegian governments demonstrates the problem. Norway not only established an oil fund to ensure that its citizens would benefit indefinitely from their natural resources \u2013 something the UK has singularly failed to do \u2013 it also ensured that as the industry developed, domestic businesses were supported to play their part in it. Norway's oil savings fund is now the biggest sovereign wealth fund on the planet, worth more than \u00a3500bn; Scotland's oil fund stands at zero.That is not to say Scotland isn't doing well. We have some excellent homegrown firms, and in the oil and gas industry businesses like the Wood Group are world leaders. Aberdeen Asset Management is now one of the world's largest investment managers, and companies like Alexander Dennis are pioneering low-carbon technology and exporting their products around the world. But we can achieve more.The current situation has come about because decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland. I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job. This week the Scottish government set out some of our ambitions for Scotland.If within 15 years we can improve our productivity growth by just 0.3 percentage points a year, increase our employment rate by around three percentage points, and boost our working-age population, then we can generate at least \u00a35bn a year of additional revenues.We will give people the jobs and opportunities that allow them to stay. Highly skilled students educated at Scottish universities would remain in their country. The resulting revenues can be reinvested in growth, in building a more equal society and in developing more homegrown firms.If we remain under Westminster, Scotland will continue as a regional economy with the inherent risk that jobs and wealth flows out of the country. As an independent country Scotland will be an open, flexible economy trading with the rest of the world. Ensuring we benefit from our own wealth doesn't involve putting up barriers. It is about having the tools to steward your economy properly.With independence we can marry the talents of the Scottish people to the natural wealth of our nation and, as the Scottish government set out this week, we can take the steps that are necessary to grow our economy, increase productivity and increase the opportunities for young people to pursue their careers in Scotland.It is time for Scotland to take its future into its own hands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland is wealthy. An independent Scotland would be fairer | John Swinney"},{"date": "2014-06-19T18:15:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Harold Wilson campaigned in 1970, a very young Conservative flung an egg which broke against him. Wilson showed humour and decency by shouting, \"Don't touch that boy! Let him go! He should be bowling for England!\"In 2010 David Cameron's government removed funds from youth centres, thus closing one in Cameron's constituency where a 12\u2013year-old boy met his friends. On the internet the boy invited other youths to picket the prime minister's constituency office, thereby using modern technology to promote a local democratic protest. Police went to the boy's school, took him from his class, and in the presence of a teacher (not his parents) told him that if public disorder happened outside Cameron's office he would be arrested, even if not present. He was told that armed police would be\u00a0present, and hold him responsible if\u00a0this led to physical injuries.The UK is coming to resemble the USSR, treating citizens as potential enemies unless wholly obedient to the nations' bosses. That the police carry guns; may stop and search anyone without a warrant, and sometimes without reason; that people can be sentenced for crimes without corroborating witnesses; that folk are\u00a0invited to spy on their neighbours and inform the police without being identified in court, are a few of the signs\u00a0that the UK is going bad.I once thought Britain a safe place, being born in 1934 and living on one of the best planned of Glasgow housing estates. Riddrie had nearly every social amenity, unlike later estates built without most of them. Riddrie gave me the lifelong illusion of belonging to Britain's middle class, as all our neighbours were fully employed between two world wars. My father had a small government pension for a wound received in the first war, supplementing his wage as a\u00a0factory worker. His hobby was being unpaid secretary for such semi-socialist organisations as the Scottish Youth Hostel Association. This got him work as\u00a0manager of a hostel for munition workers from 1940-45.He never had such a well-paid job again, but my health and excellent further education were provided by our\u00a0welfare state, which the war created. \"The only good government is a bad one in a hell of a fright,\" said the hero of Joyce Cary's best novel, The\u00a0Horse's Mouth. After the Wall Street crash and a worldwide trade depression, from 1931 Britain had been ruled by a mainly rightwing coalition. It led Britain into the second world war by appeasing Mussolini, Hitler and Franco, but on finding itself the only government fighting fascism in Europe, it rapidly nationalised all Britain. Through agreement with banks and trade unions it controlled industries, and froze profits, prices and wages. Despite severe rationing, British children who grew up during the war were healthier at the end than they had been since public health records began around 1900. Children in other lands did worse.So the 1945 general election overwhelmingly voted for a Labour government that promised to keep Britain nationalised. Being Labour supporters, my father and I naively believed Britain had achieved a peaceful, democratic socialist revolution, unlike the USSR \u2013 an undemocratic police state \u2013 and better than the US, which was ruled by millionaires. But our government had acquired coalmines, railways and other industries through buying company shares at a high price from owners glad to sell them. The\u00a0shares were no longer profitable. And nearly everyone running our nationalised industries belonged to the same rich class as their former owners. That is why Margaret\u00a0Thatcher's denationalisations went\u00a0so smoothly.I began voting Scottish Nationalist in the 1970s, on seeing that, even with a Labour government, the English part of the UK was not going to promote social welfare by publicly owning the nation's oil. I hoped self-government would win for Scotland the level of social liberty, equality and fraternity enjoyed by\u00a0Norway. A referendum held in 1979 showed 51.6% of Scots wanted that too; 48.4% did not. This followed a campaign where leaders of the Tory and Labour parties united to announce that a Scots parliament would cause a huge withdrawal of capital, resulting in the loss of Scotland's major industries. But\u00a0the Labour party in Westminster had decided that those who chose not to\u00a0vote would be counted with those who voted against, so the winners of the race lost it. Then the threatened withdrawal of capital and loss of industry happened anyway.A devolved parliament became Tony Blair's gift to Scotland in 1999, when another referendum showed a bigger majority wanted one. When Lady Thatcher was asked what she thought her greatest achievement was, she replied, \"Tony Blair and New Labour\". Exactly. Like US citizens, the UK electorate has no chance of voting for a party which will do anything to seriously tax our enlarged millionaire class that controls Westminster.If a yes victory in the September referendum gives Scotland an independent parliament with its own taxation powers, maybe Alex Salmond will start using them to equalise social benefits. Perhaps. I am disgusted by his\u00a0support of Kenny MacAskill, the justice minister who is bringing Scots' law into line with England's.The next Scottish election will be in 2016. I hope it will return a separate parliament of MSPs with independent minds who do not represent big business. May\u00a0they thoroughly and publicly debate important measures, and vote upon them without regard to former party allegiances. That should let us try to do better. There is no chance of a\u00a0better Scotland ruled from London. That is why many English who have come to live here will vote yes at the referendum.\u2022 Alasdair Gray's new book Independence: An Argument for Home Rule is out now, published by Canongate", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Welfare"], "title": "London rule can't deliver a better Scotland | Alasdair Gray"},{"date": "2014-06-08T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Our ukulele instructor exhorts us to let go of our inhibitions, and launches into song. \"That's it G,C,G,D, \u2026 G,C,G,D ...'In the jungle, the mighty jungle, the lion sleeps tonight \u2026'\"While the group strums along, delighting in the collective endeavour, I find myself thinking of the Clash, and wondering if I could get away with grabbing my uke by the neck and smashing it down in the middle of the circle of joy.I'm in a Georgian country house by an ancient Caledonian forest in the Cairngorms, drinking mulled wine and strumming the small instrument favoured by George Formby in an attempt to rediscover the \"good life\". While Tom and Barbara may have nailed it by growing their own veg and winding up Margot and Jerry, Polly and Ross Cameron at the Dell of Abernethy near Aviemore are hoping that their beautiful setting and a range of hearty activities \u2013 including seasonal yoga, bread-making and, yes, ukulele sessions \u2013 will be just as effective.Aviemore is the gateway to the Cairngorms and is the region's snow sports base, but the ancient forests, rivers and lochs provide enough incentive to visit year-round. The Camerons, who run a holiday home business in the area, think so \u2013 which is why they decided to host four weekends a year, each designed to harness the talents of local residents and share the seasonal delights of the area. A weekend package includes all classes, food and copious amounts to drink, but non-participating partners can come along for a reduced fee, and locals, or those passing through, can sign up for individual classes.Things starts well, with whisky in the lurid lounge car of the Scotrail Caledonian sleeper from London to the Highlands. When I wake up, grey concrete and sprawling suburbs have been replaced by snow-capped mountains and dawn-illuminated clouds. If there is a better way to start a holiday, I've yet to find it.Bleary-eyed but happy, I'm met at Aviemore by Ross, who apologises immediately. \"Sorry, I was meant to pick you up in a\u00a0Morris Minor \u2013 a bit more Barbara and Tom \u2013 but it wouldn't start, so I had to bring this,\" he says, pointing to a\u00a0beautiful, vintage cream Daimler.We wind down narrow, pine-flanked roads until we arrive at a collection of holiday cottages grouped around a\u00a0Georgian country house. The morning air is fresh, clouds stretch across a blue sky and the only noise comes from the birds and wind in the trees. The house itself is a treasure, restored and stripped back by the pair, who have the stylist's knack for coupling antiques with modern classics. In the sitting room, there's a fire in the grate, books on the shelves and whisky in the cabinet, while the elegant staircase leads to four large bedrooms (plus a single) and a drawing room. Guests can also stay in cute self-catering cottages with log fires, comfy beds and 50s kitsch.I spend the day reading next to the fire and walking around the sparkling water of a nearby loch and, by early evening, meet the other guests: nursery teacher Louise from south London, and Fiona and Michael, a\u00a0jovial couple from Elie, who run a shop named, excellently, Feather Your Nest.Unsurprisingly, they take to the first ukulele session like ducks to water and Louise has even done it before. Despite my obvious ineptitude, Scottish folk musician Hector MacInnes is patient and, when it is over, the session does seem to have worked some magic. As we gather around the huge kitchen table, it is as though, disconcertingly, we've been transformed into friends via the power of the uke \u2013 and the effects of a startlingly good dinner. This involves a perfectly balanced salad of pomegranate, goats cheese and candied walnuts, followed by melt-in-the-mouth shin of beef and fondant potatoes, and finished with one of my favourites: lemon posset.The next day starts early with \"seasonal\" yoga run by the beatific Dominque Picot. With the fire crackling and the sky slowly awakening outside, we rub our kidneys and stretch out our stress. Previously, trying to find inner peace in a draughty sports hall has proved beyond my capabilities. But here, somehow, it happens. Remember, Dominique says, the peace you feel now is always inside you. I feel strangely emotional afterwards, happy to have a few moments of fireside solitude before the next activity.During our bread-making class, run by chef and baker Pamela Brunton, we learn about the alchemy of yeast, enzymes and glutens, and I'm left with two overriding impressions. One: making sourdough takes a very long time. Two: it is worth it. I suspect I\u00a0am too impatient to ever make my own again, but I'm delighted when it's served in abundance at lunch, alongside homemade soup, local cheese and ham.Polly and Ross, whose warmth and generosity of spirit bind this weekend like the glutens in the sourdough, took over the running of the Dell a few years ago after overseeing a hotel in Bali and their own restaurant in Aviemore. The pair are full of ideas for the future, with forthcoming workshops offering woodland yoga, a masterclass in fruit and vegetable growing and acapella singing, as well as a paddle on the Spey.The key is that the activities draw you into the surroundings, engage you over dinner, and stimulate mind and body. After yoga on Sunday, we get on mountain bikes and spend an exhilarating few hours going through the forest. \"I think people are starting to realise that checking your phone all the time doesn't make you feel great,\" says Louise. \"This,\" she adds, spraying through mud, \"makes you feel great.\"I leave slightly less cynical, and more rested, than when I arrived. Did I\u00a0find the good life? Well, I laughed a lot, ate and drank well, slept, and learned new things \u2013 even if mastering the uke was an ask too far. If that's not the good life, it's certainly pretty close.\u2022 The trip was provided by The Dell of Abernathy (01479 821643, holiday-cairngorm.co.uk). Fully catered weekends on the Good Life Workshop cost \u00a3425 full-board (or \u00a3275 for non-participating partners). Travel from London to Aviemore was provided by Scotrail on the Caledonian Sleeper (0845 601 5929, scotrail.co.uk); seats from \u00a337.50 one-way, standard berths from \u00a368.10 one-way, though a limited number of \"Bargain Berth\" one-way fares are also available from \u00a319", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Learning holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Cottages", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "A 'Good Life' weekend in Aviemore, Scotland"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:38:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, said new evidence about the impact of a high level of foreign ownership on Scotland's wealth had made the case for independence even stronger.Swinney said a Guardian special report on the high level of foreign and UK control over significant parts of the Scottish economy had established that Scotland needed new tax, economic and borrowing powers to keep its wealth within the country and to boost domestic industry.\"Anyone looking at these figures, who recognises that the people of Scotland are not receiving the full benefit of our wealth, must surely accept that this has come about at a time when decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland,\" Swinney wrote for the Guardian's Comment is Free. \"I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job.\"A study by Glasgow University academics, commissioned by the Guardian, found that Scotland's actual wealth \u2013 the money kept within the country \u2013 was up to $5,000 (\u00a32,990) per head lower than the GDP figures repeatedly cited by Alex Salmond, the first minister, and the Yes Scotland campaign in its drive for independence.It also emerged, in a separate Guardian investigation, that almost none of the North Sea oil from Scottish waters is owned by Scottish companies, while more than 80% of whisky and salmon production is foreign-owned, and only a third of the Scottish-based finance sector is Scottish-owned.Scottish government statisticians have disputed the findings by two academics at the University of Glasgow, John McLaren and Jo Armstrong, that the actual wealth is as low as $5,000 by looking at the gross national income (GNI), which assesses the money kept inside a country rather than GDP. They said their own methodology, in which the wealth falls by $2,000 when using GNI rather than GDP, is more robust.Swinney said any of those figures established that Scotland was in the top 20 of world economies, but it could do better. \"The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way,\" he said. \"Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence. The very fact that we have high levels of ownership in Scotland from the rest of the UK and overseas, that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar sized countries - is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.\"Alistair Carmichael, the Scottish secretary, said the new assessment of Scotland's national income raised profound questions about the Scottish government's case for independence, in a week where its oil forecasts had been downgraded and it refused to publish any costings for setting up a new independent state.\"The past couple of days have shown the economics of independence in a stark and unforgiving light,\" he said.The dispute came as the referendum campaigns entered the official and legally controlled, 16-week referendum campaign period, with a weekend of intensive doorstep canvassing and leafletting, and street stalls. The lead pro-independence campaign, Yes Scotland, which is trailing in the polls by between five and 20 points, has plans for 150 events this weekend.Better Together says donations since then have soared, buoyed in large part by a reaction against the substantial gifts by the Weirs to the Yes campaign and Scottish National party, which have now totalled \u00a35.5m since 2011.Further funding details are not expected from either campaign until formally published by the Electoral Commission this summer, but their current declarations show they have spent a minimum of \u00a34.66m already on campaigning, office costs and staffing.A large number of smaller campaigns, a majority of which are expected to be backing independence, will be registered with the Electoral Commission, pushing the potential spending up by several million pounds more. Each of those will be allowed to spend up to \u00a3150,000 each.Ten of these other campaigns are now formally registered by the Electoral Commission, including the pro-independence National Collective group of young artists, the pro-yes Scottish Socialist party and the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, which wants independence to help close the Trident nuclear base on the Clyde.One pro-UK campaign, Vote No Borders, has already spent more than \u00a3250,000 on a series of cinema, newspaper and billboard adverts and filming anti-independence voters, and is planning to spend its full legal limit of \u00a3150,000 during the regulated period by raising further funds.Stuart Campbell, a pro-independence blogger at Wings over Scotland, who has applied to be registered as a Yes campaigner, has already raised \u00a3155,000 for his website, campaigning and opinion polling. He has calculated that smaller and fringe pro-independence groups have raised at least \u00a3345,000 from public appeals since February 2013.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland independence case 'strengthened by foreign wealth'"},{"date": "2014-05-29T12:33:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " 4.21pm BST That's it from me for the day. Thanks for all your comments. 1.33pm BST Efforts by Ruth Davidson, for the Conservatives, and Willie Rennie, for the Lib Dems, to land blows on Salmond over his numbers on the costs of a yes vote failed to inflict much of a bruise on the first minister, who welcomed the chance to quote once again the damaging criticisms of Treasury calculations by the experts whose names were cited in it.Professors Patrick Dunleavy and Robert Young were just the kind of people Salmond would like to meet, he said: no wonder, when they provide him with ammunition such as Dunleavy's quote that the Treasury estimation of \u00a31.5bn start-up costs for an independent Scotland was \"bizarrely inaccurate\".Rennie was, of course, correct to say that Salmond had not answered the questions about what figure the Scottish government would put on the costs of setting up an independent state. Asked if he would publish a 2012 assessment, he instead talked about yesterday's report on Scotland's economic future. But Davidson's mention of Dunleavy derailed the attack and Salmond was able to walk away relatively unscathed. 12.34pm BST First minister's questions have finished. I will post a summary shortly. 12.33pm BST Gavin Brown, for Scottish Conservatives, asks if Salmond can name any councils that have been incentivised by the business rates incentivisation scheme.This scheme was brought in to incentivise local authorities, says Salmond, and the government wants to see it working. He is sure Gavin Brown, as a Tory, would want to back John Swinney's efforts on this, he adds.Updated at 1.04pm BST 12.31pm BST Patrick Harvie, Scottish Greens MSP, asks more about the land reform report.Salmond says he is enthused by the land purchase fund for communities: the target is to have 1 million acres under public ownership by 2020.Updated at 1.07pm BST 12.30pm BST Claire Baker, Scottish Labour MSP, asks about the land reform review group report and its recommendations for greater transparency over land ownership.Salmond says the government supports the direction of travel on this report but not every detail.Updated at 1.08pm BST 12.26pm BST Dave Thompson, SNP MSP, asks about rural postal delivery services.Salmond says the sell-off of the Royal Mail was wrong. The universal service obligation is important, he says, and those of us who opposed the privatisation are very concerned to get assurances that it will continue.Updated at 1.08pm BST 12.24pm BST Salmond has not actually answered the question, Rennie says.Salmond talks about the promise in his report yesterday of \u00a31,000 \"for every man, woman and child\".He doesn't answer the start-up costs question. 12.23pm BST Willie Rennie, leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats, is up now. He wants to know about start-up costs, too. The Scottish government produced some figures in 2012, he says. Can we see them? Why won't the first minister show them?Salmond says the document published by \"his lot\" yesterday \u2013 the Treasury report \u2013 has been thoroughly rubbished.Nobody in Scotland believes they will see this so-called UK dividend, Salmond says.The Scottish government's report published yesterday has projections for the next 15 years, he says. 12.19pm BST Salmond brandishes the Treasury report. Professor Dunleavy's name is in there, he says. He reads it out.It was the UK government who introduced Dunleavy, who then said the Treasury had overstated the start-up figure by 12 times:I've never met Professor Dunleavy but he sounds like the kind of person I'd like to meet.Danny Alexander then said he was relying on figures from Professor Robert Young, who also distanced himself from the Treasury report.Professor Young is someone I'd like to meet as well, says Salmond, to rumbling laughter. 12.16pm BST But, says Davidson, the SNP would have more credibility dismissing the Treasury figures if it could provide a figure of his own.He has no intention of telling the people of Scotland how his \"paperclip economics\" add up, she says. 12.15pm BST Salmond enjoys this question. It gives him a chance to talk about Professor Patrick Dunleavy's disowning of the Treasury figures \u2013 he called them \"bizarrely inaccurate\". 12.14pm BST Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish Conservatives, is up now.John Swinney, the finance minister, was asked 11 times on the radio yesterday about the start-up costs of an independent Scotland and failed to answer, she says. Could Salmond provide a breakdown of these costs? 12.13pm BST Treatment in the NHS has improved under the SNP, says Salmond. Staffing is up, patient satisfaction is up. He reels off statistics that he says show the NHS is performing better than when Labour was in office. 12.11pm BST Lamont: He is more at home in the imagined world after a yes vote than in the real world under an SNP government.Salmond should get on with his day job, she says. 12.10pm BST Lamont cites the case of a woman called Mary, who was forced to pay for private healthcare to remove a breast lump.Salmond says a look at the Patient Opinion website gives a better balance of opinion of the thousands of patients who are receiving excellent care. 12.09pm BST Some background reading on reported problems in the NHS in Scotland from recent days:Fears over 'extreme pressure' on NHSNHS Scotland misses waiting times targetScottish health minister under fire over waiting times 12.06pm BST If you're looking for complacency, the government of which Lamont was a minister was complacent in 2006, Salmond says.The minister in 2014 is putting things right, he adds. 12.04pm BST Salmond says the SNP government has performed better than Labour did when Lamont was a minister. But he says the government can always do better.He says patient satisfaction levels are higher than they were under Labour.Updated at 12.04pm BST 12.02pm BST Johann Lamont, Scottish Labour leader, begins with a question about the NHS. Why does Salmond still have confidence in his health secretary, she asks?Alex Neil survived a vote of no confidence earlier this month.Lamont accuses Salmond of \"disgraceful complacency\".Updated at 12.03pm BST 11.53am BST Good morning and welcome to live coverage of first minister's questions, the last before the official start of the regulated referendum period tomorrow.This week has seen first minister Alex Salmond battle with claims from the UK Treasury that an independent Scotland would mean \u00a31.5bn in start-up costs, a figure he described as either \"a horrendous blunder or \u2026 a deliberate and deeply dishonest attempt to deceive\".We can surely expect to see some questions on the rival \u2013 and contradictory \u2013 reports put out yesterday by Salmond and chief secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander. As my colleague Severin Carrell reports:The first minister claimed that voting yes would leave every person in Scotland \u00a31,000 better off in 15 years' time, as the country profited from a booming economy and rising employment that would outstrip the UK.Alexander sought to outbid Salmond by claiming that a no vote would earn every person in Scotland a \"UK dividend\" worth \u00a31,400 a year for the next two decades, underpinned by the security and greater wealth promised by the UK.\ufeffWe've also seen revised projections for oil revenues:The Scottish government made a series of concessions in their latest analysis. They revised earlier, more optimistic oil forecasts downwards by up to \u00a312bn for the next three years after their last analysis overestimated North Sea revenues by \u00a31bn for 2012-13.You can read yesterday's live blog here\ufeff and a full report on yesterday's developments here.My colleague Ami Sedghi has crunched the data on Salmond's \u00a31,000 promise versus the \u00a31,400 UK dividend here.And you can follow our reporting team on Twitter: @SeverinCarrell and me, @Claire_Phipps.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "First minister's questions \u2013 Scotland live blog"},{"date": "2014-05-30T17:39:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Scotland approaches the referendum on independence \u2013 in just over 100 days' time \u2013 and we consider the opportunity a yes vote can offer, there is absolutely no doubt that it is a wealthy country. We have extraordinary resources and natural talent.That fact has been clearly established by Scotland being the richest part of the UK outside London and the south-east, even when we exclude our oil and gas wealth. Scotland would have been ranked 14th in the OECD in terms of output per head in 2012 and among the richest in the world in terms of gross national income. The CPPR's figures show that even on its lowest assessment Scotland would be in the top 20 of the OECD in terms of wealth per head. On Scottish government figures Scotland would be wealthier per head than France, Japan and the UK.That is not surprising \u2013 we have top universities, we are a hotbed of life sciences, our food and drink industry is world class, we have key strengths in growth sectors such as creative industries, and we have 25% of the EU's offshore wind potential and nearly 60% of the EU's oil reserves.So no matter which measure you use, the wealth of Scotland is undeniable. The issue at the heart of the referendum debate is not whether we are wealthy enough to be an independent country but how we ensure that wealth properly benefits the people of Scotland.The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way. Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence.The fact that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar-sized countries \u2013 is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.A comparison between the handling of oil and gas revenues by the UK and Norwegian governments demonstrates the problem. Norway not only established an oil fund to ensure that its citizens would benefit indefinitely from their natural resources \u2013 something the UK has singularly failed to do \u2013 it also ensured that as the industry developed, domestic businesses were supported to play their part in it. Norway's oil savings fund is now the biggest sovereign wealth fund on the planet, worth more than \u00a3500bn; Scotland's oil fund stands at zero.That is not to say Scotland isn't doing well. We have some excellent homegrown firms, and in the oil and gas industry businesses like the Wood Group are world leaders. Aberdeen Asset Management is now one of the world's largest investment managers, and companies like Alexander Dennis are pioneering low-carbon technology and exporting their products around the world. But we can achieve more.The current situation has come about because decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland. I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job. This week the Scottish government set out some of our ambitions for Scotland.If within 15 years we can improve our productivity growth by just 0.3 percentage points a year, increase our employment rate by around three percentage points, and boost our working-age population, then we can generate at least \u00a35bn a year of additional revenues.We will give people the jobs and opportunities that allow them to stay. Highly skilled students educated at Scottish universities would remain in their country. The resulting revenues can be reinvested in growth, in building a more equal society and in developing more homegrown firms.If we remain under Westminster, Scotland will continue as a regional economy with the inherent risk that jobs and wealth flows out of the country. As an independent country Scotland will be an open, flexible economy trading with the rest of the world. Ensuring we benefit from our own wealth doesn't involve putting up barriers. It is about having the tools to steward your economy properly.With independence we can marry the talents of the Scottish people to the natural wealth of our nation and, as the Scottish government set out this week, we can take the steps that are necessary to grow our economy, increase productivity and increase the opportunities for young people to pursue their careers in Scotland.It is time for Scotland to take its future into its own hands.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Economic policy", "Oil"], "title": "Scotland is wealthy. An independent Scotland would be fairer | John Swinney"},{"date": "2014-06-19T18:15:51Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When Harold Wilson campaigned in 1970, a very young Conservative flung an egg which broke against him. Wilson showed humour and decency by shouting, \"Don't touch that boy! Let him go! He should be bowling for England!\"In 2010 David Cameron's government removed funds from youth centres, thus closing one in Cameron's constituency where a 12\u2013year-old boy met his friends. On the internet the boy invited other youths to picket the prime minister's constituency office, thereby using modern technology to promote a local democratic protest. Police went to the boy's school, took him from his class, and in the presence of a teacher (not his parents) told him that if public disorder happened outside Cameron's office he would be arrested, even if not present. He was told that armed police would be\u00a0present, and hold him responsible if\u00a0this led to physical injuries.The UK is coming to resemble the USSR, treating citizens as potential enemies unless wholly obedient to the nations' bosses. That the police carry guns; may stop and search anyone without a warrant, and sometimes without reason; that people can be sentenced for crimes without corroborating witnesses; that folk are\u00a0invited to spy on their neighbours and inform the police without being identified in court, are a few of the signs\u00a0that the UK is going bad.I once thought Britain a safe place, being born in 1934 and living on one of the best planned of Glasgow housing estates. Riddrie had nearly every social amenity, unlike later estates built without most of them. Riddrie gave me the lifelong illusion of belonging to Britain's middle class, as all our neighbours were fully employed between two world wars. My father had a small government pension for a wound received in the first war, supplementing his wage as a\u00a0factory worker. His hobby was being unpaid secretary for such semi-socialist organisations as the Scottish Youth Hostel Association. This got him work as\u00a0manager of a hostel for munition workers from 1940-45.He never had such a well-paid job again, but my health and excellent further education were provided by our\u00a0welfare state, which the war created. \"The only good government is a bad one in a hell of a fright,\" said the hero of Joyce Cary's best novel, The\u00a0Horse's Mouth. After the Wall Street crash and a worldwide trade depression, from 1931 Britain had been ruled by a mainly rightwing coalition. It led Britain into the second world war by appeasing Mussolini, Hitler and Franco, but on finding itself the only government fighting fascism in Europe, it rapidly nationalised all Britain. Through agreement with banks and trade unions it controlled industries, and froze profits, prices and wages. Despite severe rationing, British children who grew up during the war were healthier at the end than they had been since public health records began around 1900. Children in other lands did worse.So the 1945 general election overwhelmingly voted for a Labour government that promised to keep Britain nationalised. Being Labour supporters, my father and I naively believed Britain had achieved a peaceful, democratic socialist revolution, unlike the USSR \u2013 an undemocratic police state \u2013 and better than the US, which was ruled by millionaires. But our government had acquired coalmines, railways and other industries through buying company shares at a high price from owners glad to sell them. The\u00a0shares were no longer profitable. And nearly everyone running our nationalised industries belonged to the same rich class as their former owners. That is why Margaret\u00a0Thatcher's denationalisations went\u00a0so smoothly.I began voting Scottish Nationalist in the 1970s, on seeing that, even with a Labour government, the English part of the UK was not going to promote social welfare by publicly owning the nation's oil. I hoped self-government would win for Scotland the level of social liberty, equality and fraternity enjoyed by\u00a0Norway. A referendum held in 1979 showed 51.6% of Scots wanted that too; 48.4% did not. This followed a campaign where leaders of the Tory and Labour parties united to announce that a Scots parliament would cause a huge withdrawal of capital, resulting in the loss of Scotland's major industries. But\u00a0the Labour party in Westminster had decided that those who chose not to\u00a0vote would be counted with those who voted against, so the winners of the race lost it. Then the threatened withdrawal of capital and loss of industry happened anyway.A devolved parliament became Tony Blair's gift to Scotland in 1999, when another referendum showed a bigger majority wanted one. When Lady Thatcher was asked what she thought her greatest achievement was, she replied, \"Tony Blair and New Labour\". Exactly. Like US citizens, the UK electorate has no chance of voting for a party which will do anything to seriously tax our enlarged millionaire class that controls Westminster.If a yes victory in the September referendum gives Scotland an independent parliament with its own taxation powers, maybe Alex Salmond will start using them to equalise social benefits. Perhaps. I am disgusted by his\u00a0support of Kenny MacAskill, the justice minister who is bringing Scots' law into line with England's.The next Scottish election will be in 2016. I hope it will return a separate parliament of MSPs with independent minds who do not represent big business. May\u00a0they thoroughly and publicly debate important measures, and vote upon them without regard to former party allegiances. That should let us try to do better. There is no chance of a\u00a0better Scotland ruled from London. That is why many English who have come to live here will vote yes at the referendum.\u2022 Alasdair Gray's new book Independence: An Argument for Home Rule is out now, published by Canongate", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Welfare"], "title": "London rule can't deliver a better Scotland | Alasdair Gray"},{"date": "2014-06-08T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Our ukulele instructor exhorts us to let go of our inhibitions, and launches into song. \"That's it G,C,G,D, \u2026 G,C,G,D ...'In the jungle, the mighty jungle, the lion sleeps tonight \u2026'\"While the group strums along, delighting in the collective endeavour, I find myself thinking of the Clash, and wondering if I could get away with grabbing my uke by the neck and smashing it down in the middle of the circle of joy.I'm in a Georgian country house by an ancient Caledonian forest in the Cairngorms, drinking mulled wine and strumming the small instrument favoured by George Formby in an attempt to rediscover the \"good life\". While Tom and Barbara may have nailed it by growing their own veg and winding up Margot and Jerry, Polly and Ross Cameron at the Dell of Abernethy near Aviemore are hoping that their beautiful setting and a range of hearty activities \u2013 including seasonal yoga, bread-making and, yes, ukulele sessions \u2013 will be just as effective.Aviemore is the gateway to the Cairngorms and is the region's snow sports base, but the ancient forests, rivers and lochs provide enough incentive to visit year-round. The Camerons, who run a holiday home business in the area, think so \u2013 which is why they decided to host four weekends a year, each designed to harness the talents of local residents and share the seasonal delights of the area. A weekend package includes all classes, food and copious amounts to drink, but non-participating partners can come along for a reduced fee, and locals, or those passing through, can sign up for individual classes.Things starts well, with whisky in the lurid lounge car of the Scotrail Caledonian sleeper from London to the Highlands. When I wake up, grey concrete and sprawling suburbs have been replaced by snow-capped mountains and dawn-illuminated clouds. If there is a better way to start a holiday, I've yet to find it.Bleary-eyed but happy, I'm met at Aviemore by Ross, who apologises immediately. \"Sorry, I was meant to pick you up in a\u00a0Morris Minor \u2013 a bit more Barbara and Tom \u2013 but it wouldn't start, so I had to bring this,\" he says, pointing to a\u00a0beautiful, vintage cream Daimler.We wind down narrow, pine-flanked roads until we arrive at a collection of holiday cottages grouped around a\u00a0Georgian country house. The morning air is fresh, clouds stretch across a blue sky and the only noise comes from the birds and wind in the trees. The house itself is a treasure, restored and stripped back by the pair, who have the stylist's knack for coupling antiques with modern classics. In the sitting room, there's a fire in the grate, books on the shelves and whisky in the cabinet, while the elegant staircase leads to four large bedrooms (plus a single) and a drawing room. Guests can also stay in cute self-catering cottages with log fires, comfy beds and 50s kitsch.I spend the day reading next to the fire and walking around the sparkling water of a nearby loch and, by early evening, meet the other guests: nursery teacher Louise from south London, and Fiona and Michael, a\u00a0jovial couple from Elie, who run a shop named, excellently, Feather Your Nest.Unsurprisingly, they take to the first ukulele session like ducks to water and Louise has even done it before. Despite my obvious ineptitude, Scottish folk musician Hector MacInnes is patient and, when it is over, the session does seem to have worked some magic. As we gather around the huge kitchen table, it is as though, disconcertingly, we've been transformed into friends via the power of the uke \u2013 and the effects of a startlingly good dinner. This involves a perfectly balanced salad of pomegranate, goats cheese and candied walnuts, followed by melt-in-the-mouth shin of beef and fondant potatoes, and finished with one of my favourites: lemon posset.The next day starts early with \"seasonal\" yoga run by the beatific Dominque Picot. With the fire crackling and the sky slowly awakening outside, we rub our kidneys and stretch out our stress. Previously, trying to find inner peace in a draughty sports hall has proved beyond my capabilities. But here, somehow, it happens. Remember, Dominique says, the peace you feel now is always inside you. I feel strangely emotional afterwards, happy to have a few moments of fireside solitude before the next activity.During our bread-making class, run by chef and baker Pamela Brunton, we learn about the alchemy of yeast, enzymes and glutens, and I'm left with two overriding impressions. One: making sourdough takes a very long time. Two: it is worth it. I suspect I\u00a0am too impatient to ever make my own again, but I'm delighted when it's served in abundance at lunch, alongside homemade soup, local cheese and ham.Polly and Ross, whose warmth and generosity of spirit bind this weekend like the glutens in the sourdough, took over the running of the Dell a few years ago after overseeing a hotel in Bali and their own restaurant in Aviemore. The pair are full of ideas for the future, with forthcoming workshops offering woodland yoga, a masterclass in fruit and vegetable growing and acapella singing, as well as a paddle on the Spey.The key is that the activities draw you into the surroundings, engage you over dinner, and stimulate mind and body. After yoga on Sunday, we get on mountain bikes and spend an exhilarating few hours going through the forest. \"I think people are starting to realise that checking your phone all the time doesn't make you feel great,\" says Louise. \"This,\" she adds, spraying through mud, \"makes you feel great.\"I leave slightly less cynical, and more rested, than when I arrived. Did I\u00a0find the good life? Well, I laughed a lot, ate and drank well, slept, and learned new things \u2013 even if mastering the uke was an ask too far. If that's not the good life, it's certainly pretty close.\u2022 The trip was provided by The Dell of Abernathy (01479 821643, holiday-cairngorm.co.uk). Fully catered weekends on the Good Life Workshop cost \u00a3425 full-board (or \u00a3275 for non-participating partners). Travel from London to Aviemore was provided by Scotrail on the Caledonian Sleeper (0845 601 5929, scotrail.co.uk); seats from \u00a337.50 one-way, standard berths from \u00a368.10 one-way, though a limited number of \"Bargain Berth\" one-way fares are also available from \u00a319", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Weekend breaks", "Learning holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Cottages", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "A 'Good Life' weekend in Aviemore, Scotland"},{"date": "2014-05-30T18:38:45Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "John Swinney, the Scottish finance secretary, said new evidence about the impact of a high level of foreign ownership on Scotland's wealth had made the case for independence even stronger.Swinney said a Guardian special report on the high level of foreign and UK control over significant parts of the Scottish economy had established that Scotland needed new tax, economic and borrowing powers to keep its wealth within the country and to boost domestic industry.\"Anyone looking at these figures, who recognises that the people of Scotland are not receiving the full benefit of our wealth, must surely accept that this has come about at a time when decisions about Scotland are not made by the people of Scotland,\" Swinney wrote for the Guardian's Comment is Free. \"I have no doubt that with the powers to make those decisions in Scotland we could do a better job.\"A study by Glasgow University academics, commissioned by the Guardian, found that Scotland's actual wealth \u2013 the money kept within the country \u2013 was up to $5,000 (\u00a32,990) per head lower than the GDP figures repeatedly cited by Alex Salmond, the first minister, and the Yes Scotland campaign in its drive for independence.It also emerged, in a separate Guardian investigation, that almost none of the North Sea oil from Scottish waters is owned by Scottish companies, while more than 80% of whisky and salmon production is foreign-owned, and only a third of the Scottish-based finance sector is Scottish-owned.Scottish government statisticians have disputed the findings by two academics at the University of Glasgow, John McLaren and Jo Armstrong, that the actual wealth is as low as $5,000 by looking at the gross national income (GNI), which assesses the money kept inside a country rather than GDP. They said their own methodology, in which the wealth falls by $2,000 when using GNI rather than GDP, is more robust.Swinney said any of those figures established that Scotland was in the top 20 of world economies, but it could do better. \"The reality is that while we are a wealthy country, for too many people in Scotland it does not feel that way,\" he said. \"Our economy is strong, but we need the powers to create more opportunities and build greater security. That is one of the key drivers behind our argument for independence. The very fact that we have high levels of ownership in Scotland from the rest of the UK and overseas, that Scotland has a lower rate of business start-ups, research and development and corporate HQs \u2013 particularly when compared to other similar sized countries - is to my mind an indictment of the status quo.\"Alistair Carmichael, the Scottish secretary, said the new assessment of Scotland's national income raised profound questions about the Scottish government's case for independence, in a week where its oil forecasts had been downgraded and it refused to publish any costings for setting up a new independent state.\"The past couple of days have shown the economics of independence in a stark and unforgiving light,\" he said.The dispute came as the referendum campaigns entered the official and legally controlled, 16-week referendum campaign period, with a weekend of intensive doorstep canvassing and leafletting, and street stalls. The lead pro-independence campaign, Yes Scotland, which is trailing in the polls by between five and 20 points, has plans for 150 events this weekend.Better Together says donations since then have soared, buoyed in large part by a reaction against the substantial gifts by the Weirs to the Yes campaign and Scottish National party, which have now totalled \u00a35.5m since 2011.Further funding details are not expected from either campaign until formally published by the Electoral Commission this summer, but their current declarations show they have spent a minimum of \u00a34.66m already on campaigning, office costs and staffing.A large number of smaller campaigns, a majority of which are expected to be backing independence, will be registered with the Electoral Commission, pushing the potential spending up by several million pounds more. Each of those will be allowed to spend up to \u00a3150,000 each.Ten of these other campaigns are now formally registered by the Electoral Commission, including the pro-independence National Collective group of young artists, the pro-yes Scottish Socialist party and the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, which wants independence to help close the Trident nuclear base on the Clyde.One pro-UK campaign, Vote No Borders, has already spent more than \u00a3250,000 on a series of cinema, newspaper and billboard adverts and filming anti-independence voters, and is planning to spend its full legal limit of \u00a3150,000 during the regulated period by raising further funds.Stuart Campbell, a pro-independence blogger at Wings over Scotland, who has applied to be registered as a Yes campaigner, has already raised \u00a3155,000 for his website, campaigning and opinion polling. He has calculated that smaller and fringe pro-independence groups have raised at least \u00a3345,000 from public appeals since February 2013.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Scotland independence case 'strengthened by foreign wealth'"},{"date": "2014-05-29T12:33:34Z", "country": "scotland", "content": " 4.21pm BST That's it from me for the day. Thanks for all your comments. 1.33pm BST Efforts by Ruth Davidson, for the Conservatives, and Willie Rennie, for the Lib Dems, to land blows on Salmond over his numbers on the costs of a yes vote failed to inflict much of a bruise on the first minister, who welcomed the chance to quote once again the damaging criticisms of Treasury calculations by the experts whose names were cited in it.Professors Patrick Dunleavy and Robert Young were just the kind of people Salmond would like to meet, he said: no wonder, when they provide him with ammunition such as Dunleavy's quote that the Treasury estimation of \u00a31.5bn start-up costs for an independent Scotland was \"bizarrely inaccurate\".Rennie was, of course, correct to say that Salmond had not answered the questions about what figure the Scottish government would put on the costs of setting up an independent state. Asked if he would publish a 2012 assessment, he instead talked about yesterday's report on Scotland's economic future. But Davidson's mention of Dunleavy derailed the attack and Salmond was able to walk away relatively unscathed. 12.34pm BST First minister's questions have finished. I will post a summary shortly. 12.33pm BST Gavin Brown, for Scottish Conservatives, asks if Salmond can name any councils that have been incentivised by the business rates incentivisation scheme.This scheme was brought in to incentivise local authorities, says Salmond, and the government wants to see it working. He is sure Gavin Brown, as a Tory, would want to back John Swinney's efforts on this, he adds.Updated at 1.04pm BST 12.31pm BST Patrick Harvie, Scottish Greens MSP, asks more about the land reform report.Salmond says he is enthused by the land purchase fund for communities: the target is to have 1 million acres under public ownership by 2020.Updated at 1.07pm BST 12.30pm BST Claire Baker, Scottish Labour MSP, asks about the land reform review group report and its recommendations for greater transparency over land ownership.Salmond says the government supports the direction of travel on this report but not every detail.Updated at 1.08pm BST 12.26pm BST Dave Thompson, SNP MSP, asks about rural postal delivery services.Salmond says the sell-off of the Royal Mail was wrong. The universal service obligation is important, he says, and those of us who opposed the privatisation are very concerned to get assurances that it will continue.Updated at 1.08pm BST 12.24pm BST Salmond has not actually answered the question, Rennie says.Salmond talks about the promise in his report yesterday of \u00a31,000 \"for every man, woman and child\".He doesn't answer the start-up costs question. 12.23pm BST Willie Rennie, leader of the Scottish Liberal Democrats, is up now. He wants to know about start-up costs, too. The Scottish government produced some figures in 2012, he says. Can we see them? Why won't the first minister show them?Salmond says the document published by \"his lot\" yesterday \u2013 the Treasury report \u2013 has been thoroughly rubbished.Nobody in Scotland believes they will see this so-called UK dividend, Salmond says.The Scottish government's report published yesterday has projections for the next 15 years, he says. 12.19pm BST Salmond brandishes the Treasury report. Professor Dunleavy's name is in there, he says. He reads it out.It was the UK government who introduced Dunleavy, who then said the Treasury had overstated the start-up figure by 12 times:I've never met Professor Dunleavy but he sounds like the kind of person I'd like to meet.Danny Alexander then said he was relying on figures from Professor Robert Young, who also distanced himself from the Treasury report.Professor Young is someone I'd like to meet as well, says Salmond, to rumbling laughter. 12.16pm BST But, says Davidson, the SNP would have more credibility dismissing the Treasury figures if it could provide a figure of his own.He has no intention of telling the people of Scotland how his \"paperclip economics\" add up, she says. 12.15pm BST Salmond enjoys this question. It gives him a chance to talk about Professor Patrick Dunleavy's disowning of the Treasury figures \u2013 he called them \"bizarrely inaccurate\". 12.14pm BST Ruth Davidson, leader of the Scottish Conservatives, is up now.John Swinney, the finance minister, was asked 11 times on the radio yesterday about the start-up costs of an independent Scotland and failed to answer, she says. Could Salmond provide a breakdown of these costs? 12.13pm BST Treatment in the NHS has improved under the SNP, says Salmond. Staffing is up, patient satisfaction is up. He reels off statistics that he says show the NHS is performing better than when Labour was in office. 12.11pm BST Lamont: He is more at home in the imagined world after a yes vote than in the real world under an SNP government.Salmond should get on with his day job, she says. 12.10pm BST Lamont cites the case of a woman called Mary, who was forced to pay for private healthcare to remove a breast lump.Salmond says a look at the Patient Opinion website gives a better balance of opinion of the thousands of patients who are receiving excellent care. 12.09pm BST Some background reading on reported problems in the NHS in Scotland from recent days:Fears over 'extreme pressure' on NHSNHS Scotland misses waiting times targetScottish health minister under fire over waiting times 12.06pm BST If you're looking for complacency, the government of which Lamont was a minister was complacent in 2006, Salmond says.The minister in 2014 is putting things right, he adds. 12.04pm BST Salmond says the SNP government has performed better than Labour did when Lamont was a minister. But he says the government can always do better.He says patient satisfaction levels are higher than they were under Labour.Updated at 12.04pm BST 12.02pm BST Johann Lamont, Scottish Labour leader, begins with a question about the NHS. Why does Salmond still have confidence in his health secretary, she asks?Alex Neil survived a vote of no confidence earlier this month.Lamont accuses Salmond of \"disgraceful complacency\".Updated at 12.03pm BST 11.53am BST Good morning and welcome to live coverage of first minister's questions, the last before the official start of the regulated referendum period tomorrow.This week has seen first minister Alex Salmond battle with claims from the UK Treasury that an independent Scotland would mean \u00a31.5bn in start-up costs, a figure he described as either \"a horrendous blunder or \u2026 a deliberate and deeply dishonest attempt to deceive\".We can surely expect to see some questions on the rival \u2013 and contradictory \u2013 reports put out yesterday by Salmond and chief secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander. As my colleague Severin Carrell reports:The first minister claimed that voting yes would leave every person in Scotland \u00a31,000 better off in 15 years' time, as the country profited from a booming economy and rising employment that would outstrip the UK.Alexander sought to outbid Salmond by claiming that a no vote would earn every person in Scotland a \"UK dividend\" worth \u00a31,400 a year for the next two decades, underpinned by the security and greater wealth promised by the UK.\ufeffWe've also seen revised projections for oil revenues:The Scottish government made a series of concessions in their latest analysis. They revised earlier, more optimistic oil forecasts downwards by up to \u00a312bn for the next three years after their last analysis overestimated North Sea revenues by \u00a31bn for 2012-13.You can read yesterday's live blog here\ufeff and a full report on yesterday's developments here.My colleague Ami Sedghi has crunched the data on Salmond's \u00a31,000 promise versus the \u00a31,400 UK dividend here.And you can follow our reporting team on Twitter: @SeverinCarrell and me, @Claire_Phipps.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Alex Salmond", "Politics", "UK news", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "First minister's questions \u2013 Scotland live blog"},{"date": "2014-05-20T12:05:46Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A yes vote in September's Scottish independence referendum will trigger the complicated process of breaking up the United Kingdom. A Scottish choice for independence must be respected; that is vital if the UK is to continue to be a democracy. But respecting Scotland's choice does not mean abandoning the interests of the 60 million people who live in the rest of the UK (rUK for short). That affects the substance of any independence negotiations, but also how long the process would take, and who would take part.The process of achieving Scottish independence is far from easy. In reality, the process of severing Scotland from UK/rUK will go on for very many years, no matter what. The immediate negotiations would have to address a number of difficult issues, including the future of the nuclear submarine bases on the Clyde, the division of the UK national debt, the future of North Sea oil and gas and other national assets, border security, as well as how to resolve the myriad other issues that would need to be resolved in the coming months, years and perhaps decades. At that stage, Scotland would also need to resolve \u2013 probably not with UK involvement \u2013 such key issues as its currency , EU membership  and its citizenship law. As important as the resolution of each separate issue would be the trade-offs between them \u2013 which would be quite important for the rUK side though more important for Scotland. And once negotiated, these large and important proposals would need to be legislated for at Westminster, and approved at Holyrood \u2013 which itself could well take nearly a year.On the Scottish side, Alex Salmond has been keen to talk of a cross-party \"Team Scotland\" of negotiators for some time . On the UK/rUK side, there is increasing recognition that it would be wrong for Scottish politicians at Westminster to take part in independence negotiations on the UK/rUK side. People in rUK need to have confidence that their negotiators have only had their interests at heart in those talks, and that means Scottish MPs and ministers cannot take part.Several Lib Dem ministers recognised this some time back; last week, the Lords constitution committee made the point very forcefully . As the UK government would continue to represent Scotland in many areas until independence day, this would mean creating special parallel machinery \u2013 including cabinet committees, and perhaps even meetings of cabinet without Scottish ministers \u2013 to manage negotiations and the independence process.But this could be complicated by timing issues. There is a tension here. There are very strong reasons to want Scotland to become independent as soon as possible. That would avoid the \"constitutional limbo\" that concerns the constitution committee, respect Scottish voters' choice to be independent \u2013 and also mean that rUK did not include and seek to govern a nation that had rejected the UK in such a formal manner. The prospect of the UK government being second-guessed by Scotland and unable to make policy for rUK for a protracted period would undermine democracy in rUK. A quick process would probably take around 18 months to complete, assuming a sense of urgency on both sides, though even that is rather long given the democratic imperatives. While the Scottish government's proposed period of 16 months seems rather arbitrarily chosen, it might be workable \u2013 but for the fact the 2015 UK general election falls in the middle of it.The general election disrupts the process hugely. As others have pointed out, the election campaign will itself consume politicians' attention at just the time progress needs to be made in independence talks , and the prospect of a change of UK government partway through makes it hard for the government to do much before the election . But there is a worse possible situation: what happens if Labour comes out of the 2015 election as narrowly the largest party? The likelihood is that such a Labour government would need Scottish MPs to make up its majority, but would lose that when Scottish MPs left parliament on independence day.Not only would rUK face a change of government without an election, but the party in government would not have a mandate from rUK voters for independence negotiations. This would be the West Lothian question put on steroids. It would imply, for instance, that any independence negotiations would need to involve the Conservatives (as the presumptive successor to Labour and/or holding the largest number of rUK seats) in the independence negotiations \u2013 these could not be treated as a purely executive matter, as the Lords constitution committee proposes. And it would call for a good deal of constitutional imagination and flexibility to respond to such a difficult and unusual situation.One way round this would be for a very rough-and-ready negotiation of independence, so that independence day was 7 May 2015, polling day. That would be horrendously difficult to accomplish, but might be the least bad of the options given the problems that Scottish independence creates otherwise.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "General election 2015"], "title": "So Scotland votes yes: what then? | Alan Trench"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-08-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On Sunday, a trilogy of history plays I've written will open at\u00a0the Edinburgh international festival. They go by\u00a0the collective title The James Plays, and each imagines events and characters from the reigns of three medieval Scottish kings, James I, James II and James III.We've been in rehearsal since the beginning of April; a cast of 20 and a supporting team have been living in an\u00a0imaginary 15th-century Scotland for\u00a0four months. We've moved this fictional world from rehearsal rooms in Glasgow to London to Birmingham and now, finally, into Edinburgh, in a vast caravan of scaffolding, puppets and exhausted actors. The plays were commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland back in 2011, and I've been working on them for three years. For the first two years they were still only real in my head, shared with a few readers. Now\u00a0my characters are all grown up, running around a real stage waving swords, living and dying, loving and murdering, dancing and telling jokes.There have been many points in this process when I've looked at the other professionals, actors, creative team, stage management, and wondered not only why they're doing this, but why they're doing it with such energy and enthusiasm. Why go through all this to tell the stories of Scottish history to a contemporary audience? What was my fascination with these stories? Why write history plays at all?I have a rather average honours degree in history from Edinburgh University \u2013 my enthusiasm for my subject was not reflected in academic application \u2013 but what I loved then and\u00a0love now is the sensation of seeing\u00a0the past take solid form in the\u00a0present as the reasons for contemporary actions and attitudes are uncovered by the study of forgotten events. And these are forgotten events \u2013 the kings and queens and long dead Scots I've imagined have become almost invisible.When I started to write the plays there were two phrases I heard repeatedly. One was apologetic, as people would admit, sheepishly: \"I\u00a0don't know much about this period of\u00a0history.\" But the truth is that no one\u00a0knows much about it. The other reaction, when I said I was writing a play about James I of Scotland, often came with a slight air of rebuke: \"Oh he's really James VI you know.\" \"No,\" I'd say, \"Not James I of England, not James I and VI, James I of Scotland,\" only to see a puzzled frown descend as they struggled to catch my meaning.Scotland had six kings called James between 1424 and 1603, when James VI also became James I of England. (Mary Queen of Scots was between V and VI.) But their stories are not taught in schools and \u2013 apart from some tremendous novels, such as those by\u00a0Nigel Tranter \u2013 have been largely neglected by popular culture. So that was the first reason for writing The James Plays, to allow a tiny piece of Scotland's past to be better known.However it was never my intention to provide a dramatised history lesson. Instead, my desire was to tell stories about love, war, family, loyalty and the\u00a0extremes of human emotion in the extreme conditions that the middle ages provided.I think sometimes we like to patronise the characters of history. Because we can't see any vivid evidence of their humanity \u2013 the traces of\u00a0their lives survive mainly in stone or in scraps of legal documents \u2013 we tend to imagine them as dull, humourless creatures. My own opinion is that intelligence and emotions would not have been substantially different in the\u00a015th century from what they are\u00a0today. In the plays, most of the characters inherited power and responsibility at an age we would consider frighteningly young. All of\u00a0them demonstrate thoughts and feelings familiar to a modern audience in language as contemporary as their own would have been to them.And for me that's another reason to write and watch history plays, for that thrill of recognising common humanity with the dead. It serves as a warning, we are no better, no more intelligent than them, if we don't understand our\u00a0past then we may repeat it. It's an\u00a0intimation of our mortality, they were just like us and now they're gone,\u00a0but it's also a connection with our ancestors. Not that I imagine we're\u00a0all descended from Scottish royals, but when a community is as small as medieval Scotland was, a lot of\u00a0us will be descended from people who knew them or were, at the very least, affected by their actions and their personalities.Then there is the significance of staging these plays now, this year, when Scotland is deciding what the next few hundred years of its history might look like. At the time I started working on them it seemed likely that a referendum on independence would be called. As it became a certainty I\u00a0hoped I'd be lucky enough to put the\u00a0plays in front of an audience this year. I don't claim they make a heavy contribution to the argument for one side or the other, but, if I've done my job well enough, I hope they will remain entertaining and relevant beyond this moment. However there can be few things more useful, at a point when Scotland is deciding its future, than taking a look into its past.\u00a0The 15th century holds up a fascinating mirror to Scotland and to her relations with England. James I was\u00a0England's prisoner and sent home\u00a0with an English bride, almost as\u00a0a vassal king, only to become a\u00a0strong and independent ruler. James\u00a0II\u00a0made war on England, James\u00a0III alternated between courting English favour and gold and trying to\u00a0do a better deal with\u00a0France. All of\u00a0them lived in the shadow of their larger, richer, southern\u00a0neighbour, and\u00a0it was\u00a0fascinating to trace some of\u00a0our contemporary attitudes to that relationship back to the time of these queens and kings, when violent and\u00a0epic events touched each succeeding\u00a0generation.\u2022 The James Plays run from 10 to 22 August at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh. eif.co.uk", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Edinburgh festival", "Festivals", "Edinburgh festival 2014", "Rona Munro"], "title": "The lost kings of Scotland"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-08-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On Sunday, a trilogy of history plays I've written will open at\u00a0the Edinburgh international festival. They go by\u00a0the collective title The James Plays, and each imagines events and characters from the reigns of three medieval Scottish kings, James I, James II and James III.We've been in rehearsal since the beginning of April; a cast of 20 and a supporting team have been living in an\u00a0imaginary 15th-century Scotland for\u00a0four months. We've moved this fictional world from rehearsal rooms in Glasgow to London to Birmingham and now, finally, into Edinburgh, in a vast caravan of scaffolding, puppets and exhausted actors. The plays were commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland back in 2011, and I've been working on them for three years. For the first two years they were still only real in my head, shared with a few readers. Now\u00a0my characters are all grown up, running around a real stage waving swords, living and dying, loving and murdering, dancing and telling jokes.There have been many points in this process when I've looked at the other professionals, actors, creative team, stage management, and wondered not only why they're doing this, but why they're doing it with such energy and enthusiasm. Why go through all this to tell the stories of Scottish history to a contemporary audience? What was my fascination with these stories? Why write history plays at all?I have a rather average honours degree in history from Edinburgh University \u2013 my enthusiasm for my subject was not reflected in academic application \u2013 but what I loved then and\u00a0love now is the sensation of seeing\u00a0the past take solid form in the\u00a0present as the reasons for contemporary actions and attitudes are uncovered by the study of forgotten events. And these are forgotten events \u2013 the kings and queens and long dead Scots I've imagined have become almost invisible.When I started to write the plays there were two phrases I heard repeatedly. One was apologetic, as people would admit, sheepishly: \"I\u00a0don't know much about this period of\u00a0history.\" But the truth is that no one\u00a0knows much about it. The other reaction, when I said I was writing a play about James I of Scotland, often came with a slight air of rebuke: \"Oh he's really James VI you know.\" \"No,\" I'd say, \"Not James I of England, not James I and VI, James I of Scotland,\" only to see a puzzled frown descend as they struggled to catch my meaning.Scotland had six kings called James between 1424 and 1603, when James VI also became James I of England. (Mary Queen of Scots was between V and VI.) But their stories are not taught in schools and \u2013 apart from some tremendous novels, such as those by\u00a0Nigel Tranter \u2013 have been largely neglected by popular culture. So that was the first reason for writing The James Plays, to allow a tiny piece of Scotland's past to be better known.However it was never my intention to provide a dramatised history lesson. Instead, my desire was to tell stories about love, war, family, loyalty and the\u00a0extremes of human emotion in the extreme conditions that the middle ages provided.I think sometimes we like to patronise the characters of history. Because we can't see any vivid evidence of their humanity \u2013 the traces of\u00a0their lives survive mainly in stone or in scraps of legal documents \u2013 we tend to imagine them as dull, humourless creatures. My own opinion is that intelligence and emotions would not have been substantially different in the\u00a015th century from what they are\u00a0today. In the plays, most of the characters inherited power and responsibility at an age we would consider frighteningly young. All of\u00a0them demonstrate thoughts and feelings familiar to a modern audience in language as contemporary as their own would have been to them.And for me that's another reason to write and watch history plays, for that thrill of recognising common humanity with the dead. It serves as a warning, we are no better, no more intelligent than them, if we don't understand our\u00a0past then we may repeat it. It's an\u00a0intimation of our mortality, they were just like us and now they're gone,\u00a0but it's also a connection with our ancestors. Not that I imagine we're\u00a0all descended from Scottish royals, but when a community is as small as medieval Scotland was, a lot of\u00a0us will be descended from people who knew them or were, at the very least, affected by their actions and their personalities.Then there is the significance of staging these plays now, this year, when Scotland is deciding what the next few hundred years of its history might look like. At the time I started working on them it seemed likely that a referendum on independence would be called. As it became a certainty I\u00a0hoped I'd be lucky enough to put the\u00a0plays in front of an audience this year. I don't claim they make a heavy contribution to the argument for one side or the other, but, if I've done my job well enough, I hope they will remain entertaining and relevant beyond this moment. However there can be few things more useful, at a point when Scotland is deciding its future, than taking a look into its past.\u00a0The 15th century holds up a fascinating mirror to Scotland and to her relations with England. James I was\u00a0England's prisoner and sent home\u00a0with an English bride, almost as\u00a0a vassal king, only to become a\u00a0strong and independent ruler. James\u00a0II\u00a0made war on England, James\u00a0III alternated between courting English favour and gold and trying to\u00a0do a better deal with\u00a0France. All of\u00a0them lived in the shadow of their larger, richer, southern\u00a0neighbour, and\u00a0it was\u00a0fascinating to trace some of\u00a0our contemporary attitudes to that relationship back to the time of these queens and kings, when violent and\u00a0epic events touched each succeeding\u00a0generation.\u2022 The James Plays run from 10 to 22 August at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh. eif.co.uk", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Edinburgh festival", "Festivals", "Edinburgh festival 2014", "Rona Munro"], "title": "The lost kings of Scotland"},{"date": "2014-09-30T17:04:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If you thought some key social policy aspirations in the Scottish government\u2019s ambitious independence white paper were shelved after last month\u2019s referendum perhaps it\u2019s time to think again.Whatever the outcome of talks designed to give Scotland fuller self-government within the UK \u2013 and the three main Westminster parties promised the earth to secure a no vote \u2013 Holyrood will shortly begin the process of assuming some taxation powers under legislation approved by Westminster in 2012.A new body, Revenue Scotland, will be created next year to oversee a Scottish rate of income tax from 2016 \u2013 for some a modest, but nonetheless significant step towards fuller fiscal autonomy.Under this deal, the Scottish government will control 10% of income tax revenue, worth around \u00a35bn \u2013 giving it the power to raise tax above this level to fund ambitious social care programmes outlined in last year\u2019s white paper.It made clear an independent Scotland would not be required \u201cto raise the general rate of taxation to fund existing levels of spending\u201d. But how, you might ask, could the country fund, say, one key plan for \u201ctransformational changes in childcare\u201d from the age of one \u2013 creating an estimated 35,000 jobs \u2013 without raising spending?One leading Scottish finance expert is in no doubt that Holyrood \u2013 if it has the political will \u2013 will soon have the ability to begin an ambitious social care programme, moving towards a Nordic model lauded in that white paper.The Scottish government\u2019s cabinet secretary for finance, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney, says cautiously that the administration will have to decide towards the end of next year about what rate of income tax it should recommend to Holyrood.\u201cNo decisions have yet been taken about setting the rate \u2013 at 10p, above or below that level,\u201d his department added. \u201cClearly these will be major decisions.\u201d Too right.Of course, much will depend on the outcome of a fast-track commission, under the businessman Lord Smith of Kelvin, tasked with overseeing the process of greater devolution in line with the promises made by the three main Westminster party leaders. Agreement is needed by the end of November so that the draft bill can be published by 25 January, Burns night.The Tories, for instance, want all tax to be transferred; Labour, while favouring the transfer of some welfare functions, such as attendance allowance and housing benefit, has been more cautious \u2013 although the former prime minister Gordon Brown promised Scots they would be rewarded with a \u201cmodern form of Scottish home rule\u201d if they remained in the union.For his part, Swinney \u2013 a member of Lord Smith\u2019s commission \u2013 notes that the three main parties vowed to deliver substantial further devolution that included a \u201csignificant transfer of taxation and welfare powers\u201d.The ideological divide between Labour and the SNP in the UK \u2013 though, not necessarily, with a semi-detached Scottish Labour \u2013 appears wide. Swinney, for instance, is at odds with the continued austerity favoured by the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls \u2013 preferring a fiscal stimulus to help revive the economy.Viewed from the outside, it\u2019s hard yet to see an agreement in the Smith commission that will satisfy the SNP government \u2013 although, to be fair, discussions have barely begun. But, assuming that some welfare and more taxation powers will be devolved to Holyrood, supplementing those already agreed for 2016, the implications for England will be profound.How long, for instance, will English councils be prepared to operate in the vice of an ever-tightening funding settlement \u2013 they\u2019ve already made savings of \u00a310bn in this parliament \u2013 when Scots are granted a degree of fiscal independence while still enjoying a more generous Whitehall funding settlement?On the back of the referendum, Scotland is right to press Westminster to honour pledges made in the heat of last month\u2019s campaign. But next year, England, the ultimate centralised state, deserves some reciprocity.", "tags": ["Local government", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Society"], "title": "The taxing questions facing Scotland and England"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-08-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On Sunday, a trilogy of history plays I've written will open at\u00a0the Edinburgh international festival. They go by\u00a0the collective title The James Plays, and each imagines events and characters from the reigns of three medieval Scottish kings, James I, James II and James III.We've been in rehearsal since the beginning of April; a cast of 20 and a supporting team have been living in an\u00a0imaginary 15th-century Scotland for\u00a0four months. We've moved this fictional world from rehearsal rooms in Glasgow to London to Birmingham and now, finally, into Edinburgh, in a vast caravan of scaffolding, puppets and exhausted actors. The plays were commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland back in 2011, and I've been working on them for three years. For the first two years they were still only real in my head, shared with a few readers. Now\u00a0my characters are all grown up, running around a real stage waving swords, living and dying, loving and murdering, dancing and telling jokes.There have been many points in this process when I've looked at the other professionals, actors, creative team, stage management, and wondered not only why they're doing this, but why they're doing it with such energy and enthusiasm. Why go through all this to tell the stories of Scottish history to a contemporary audience? What was my fascination with these stories? Why write history plays at all?I have a rather average honours degree in history from Edinburgh University \u2013 my enthusiasm for my subject was not reflected in academic application \u2013 but what I loved then and\u00a0love now is the sensation of seeing\u00a0the past take solid form in the\u00a0present as the reasons for contemporary actions and attitudes are uncovered by the study of forgotten events. And these are forgotten events \u2013 the kings and queens and long dead Scots I've imagined have become almost invisible.When I started to write the plays there were two phrases I heard repeatedly. One was apologetic, as people would admit, sheepishly: \"I\u00a0don't know much about this period of\u00a0history.\" But the truth is that no one\u00a0knows much about it. The other reaction, when I said I was writing a play about James I of Scotland, often came with a slight air of rebuke: \"Oh he's really James VI you know.\" \"No,\" I'd say, \"Not James I of England, not James I and VI, James I of Scotland,\" only to see a puzzled frown descend as they struggled to catch my meaning.Scotland had six kings called James between 1424 and 1603, when James VI also became James I of England. (Mary Queen of Scots was between V and VI.) But their stories are not taught in schools and \u2013 apart from some tremendous novels, such as those by\u00a0Nigel Tranter \u2013 have been largely neglected by popular culture. So that was the first reason for writing The James Plays, to allow a tiny piece of Scotland's past to be better known.However it was never my intention to provide a dramatised history lesson. Instead, my desire was to tell stories about love, war, family, loyalty and the\u00a0extremes of human emotion in the extreme conditions that the middle ages provided.I think sometimes we like to patronise the characters of history. Because we can't see any vivid evidence of their humanity \u2013 the traces of\u00a0their lives survive mainly in stone or in scraps of legal documents \u2013 we tend to imagine them as dull, humourless creatures. My own opinion is that intelligence and emotions would not have been substantially different in the\u00a015th century from what they are\u00a0today. In the plays, most of the characters inherited power and responsibility at an age we would consider frighteningly young. All of\u00a0them demonstrate thoughts and feelings familiar to a modern audience in language as contemporary as their own would have been to them.And for me that's another reason to write and watch history plays, for that thrill of recognising common humanity with the dead. It serves as a warning, we are no better, no more intelligent than them, if we don't understand our\u00a0past then we may repeat it. It's an\u00a0intimation of our mortality, they were just like us and now they're gone,\u00a0but it's also a connection with our ancestors. Not that I imagine we're\u00a0all descended from Scottish royals, but when a community is as small as medieval Scotland was, a lot of\u00a0us will be descended from people who knew them or were, at the very least, affected by their actions and their personalities.Then there is the significance of staging these plays now, this year, when Scotland is deciding what the next few hundred years of its history might look like. At the time I started working on them it seemed likely that a referendum on independence would be called. As it became a certainty I\u00a0hoped I'd be lucky enough to put the\u00a0plays in front of an audience this year. I don't claim they make a heavy contribution to the argument for one side or the other, but, if I've done my job well enough, I hope they will remain entertaining and relevant beyond this moment. However there can be few things more useful, at a point when Scotland is deciding its future, than taking a look into its past.\u00a0The 15th century holds up a fascinating mirror to Scotland and to her relations with England. James I was\u00a0England's prisoner and sent home\u00a0with an English bride, almost as\u00a0a vassal king, only to become a\u00a0strong and independent ruler. James\u00a0II\u00a0made war on England, James\u00a0III alternated between courting English favour and gold and trying to\u00a0do a better deal with\u00a0France. All of\u00a0them lived in the shadow of their larger, richer, southern\u00a0neighbour, and\u00a0it was\u00a0fascinating to trace some of\u00a0our contemporary attitudes to that relationship back to the time of these queens and kings, when violent and\u00a0epic events touched each succeeding\u00a0generation.\u2022 The James Plays run from 10 to 22 August at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh. eif.co.uk", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Edinburgh festival", "Festivals", "Edinburgh festival 2014", "Rona Munro"], "title": "The lost kings of Scotland"},{"date": "2014-09-30T17:04:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If you thought some key social policy aspirations in the Scottish government\u2019s ambitious independence white paper were shelved after last month\u2019s referendum perhaps it\u2019s time to think again.Whatever the outcome of talks designed to give Scotland fuller self-government within the UK \u2013 and the three main Westminster parties promised the earth to secure a no vote \u2013 Holyrood will shortly begin the process of assuming some taxation powers under legislation approved by Westminster in 2012.A new body, Revenue Scotland, will be created next year to oversee a Scottish rate of income tax from 2016 \u2013 for some a modest, but nonetheless significant step towards fuller fiscal autonomy.Under this deal, the Scottish government will control 10% of income tax revenue, worth around \u00a35bn \u2013 giving it the power to raise tax above this level to fund ambitious social care programmes outlined in last year\u2019s white paper.It made clear an independent Scotland would not be required \u201cto raise the general rate of taxation to fund existing levels of spending\u201d. But how, you might ask, could the country fund, say, one key plan for \u201ctransformational changes in childcare\u201d from the age of one \u2013 creating an estimated 35,000 jobs \u2013 without raising spending?One leading Scottish finance expert is in no doubt that Holyrood \u2013 if it has the political will \u2013 will soon have the ability to begin an ambitious social care programme, moving towards a Nordic model lauded in that white paper.The Scottish government\u2019s cabinet secretary for finance, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney, says cautiously that the administration will have to decide towards the end of next year about what rate of income tax it should recommend to Holyrood.\u201cNo decisions have yet been taken about setting the rate \u2013 at 10p, above or below that level,\u201d his department added. \u201cClearly these will be major decisions.\u201d Too right.Of course, much will depend on the outcome of a fast-track commission, under the businessman Lord Smith of Kelvin, tasked with overseeing the process of greater devolution in line with the promises made by the three main Westminster party leaders. Agreement is needed by the end of November so that the draft bill can be published by 25 January, Burns night.The Tories, for instance, want all tax to be transferred; Labour, while favouring the transfer of some welfare functions, such as attendance allowance and housing benefit, has been more cautious \u2013 although the former prime minister Gordon Brown promised Scots they would be rewarded with a \u201cmodern form of Scottish home rule\u201d if they remained in the union.For his part, Swinney \u2013 a member of Lord Smith\u2019s commission \u2013 notes that the three main parties vowed to deliver substantial further devolution that included a \u201csignificant transfer of taxation and welfare powers\u201d.The ideological divide between Labour and the SNP in the UK \u2013 though, not necessarily, with a semi-detached Scottish Labour \u2013 appears wide. Swinney, for instance, is at odds with the continued austerity favoured by the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls \u2013 preferring a fiscal stimulus to help revive the economy.Viewed from the outside, it\u2019s hard yet to see an agreement in the Smith commission that will satisfy the SNP government \u2013 although, to be fair, discussions have barely begun. But, assuming that some welfare and more taxation powers will be devolved to Holyrood, supplementing those already agreed for 2016, the implications for England will be profound.How long, for instance, will English councils be prepared to operate in the vice of an ever-tightening funding settlement \u2013 they\u2019ve already made savings of \u00a310bn in this parliament \u2013 when Scots are granted a degree of fiscal independence while still enjoying a more generous Whitehall funding settlement?On the back of the referendum, Scotland is right to press Westminster to honour pledges made in the heat of last month\u2019s campaign. But next year, England, the ultimate centralised state, deserves some reciprocity.", "tags": ["Local government", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Society"], "title": "The taxing questions facing Scotland and England"},{"date": "2014-09-30T09:07:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Should the rest of us just move to Scotland? The wild wooing of the referendum campaign has done its work and it\u2019s hard to shake the idea everything is better north of the border \u2013 no university fees, no prescription charges, politically engaged young people and now, the historic and groundbreaking prospect that Holyrood\u2019s three main political parties will all be led by women.Nicola Sturgeon, who is expected to succeed first minister Alex Salmond this week, will become Scotland\u2019s first female leader, joining Conservative Ruth Davidson and Labour\u2019s Johann Lamont in a triumphant triumvirate of women in the country\u2019s most powerful political positions. It\u2019s an unprecedented situation in the UK and a stark comparison to our three Oxbridge-educated, career politicians with privileged backgrounds, born just a few years apart. Any steps to change that are often faced by howls of protest \u2013 the last-minute cabinet reshuffle, for instance, was dubbed the Night of the Long Wives \u2013 despite just five of 22 cabinet members being women. And yet, without any fanfare, Scotland lines up three state-educated women, aged between 35 and 57, who have worked in journalism and the Territorial Army (Davidson), teaching (Lamont) and the law (Sturgeon).\u201cWhen I became leader, I got so many emails,\u201d Davidson tells me. \u201cMainly from gay, male, teenagers who said, \u2018I\u2019m interested in politics, but thought I could never get on because I am gay.\u2019 It never struck me before that it mattered who the leader was to people who weren\u2019t in your party, but \u2026 it does.\u201d Sturgeon agrees \u2013 Scotland\u2019s feminist moment isn\u2019t simply symbolic: \u201cIt sends a powerful signal about equality, and the cracking of the glass ceiling.\u201d Her party is now the third biggest in the UK \u2013 ahead of the Liberal Democrats. But apart from the refreshing change of seeing three women in charge, will the testosterone-fuelled culture that spawned the so-called Punch and Judy politics be reined in? Will the pay gap disappear, childcare be prioritised and domestic violence convictions soar?Nan Sloane, from Counting Women In, says she is \u201ccautiously excited\u201d as it\u2019s \u201ceasy to make assumptions about how women in leadership roles behave, and then offload on to them the responsibility for cultural change\u201d. Men, she says, are still needed on board to usher in societal change.It\u2019s a point backed up by Susan Stewart from Women for Independence, a grassroots campaigning group, who says, \u201cMany of us hoped that the 1999 intake of female MSPs would lead to a more consensual politics, but that didn\u2019t happen.\u201d Notionally, the idea of three women facing each other down at first minister\u2019s questions could herald that change. Sloane, however, believes that behind the scenes, these three women may be more willing to listen to each other. Lamont herself admits, \u201cPeople think that politicians shouting at each other is not about them,\u201d and while Davidson believes more could be done to \u201clower the temperature\u201d of parliamentary debates, Sturgeon cannily says: \u201cIf I am elected, there may be an opportunity to change the tone for the better.\u201dIt makes sense that increased gender balance in politics does correlate with stronger outcomes for gender equality, yet Davidson thinks that one more woman is unlikely to mean childcare, the pay gap and violence against women will radically change: \u201cAlex Salmond has not been stopping those discussions from happening because he is a man \u2013 there are many accusations I could throw at the first minister, but that\u2019s not one of them.\u201dWhether the consensus will be changed by stealth or speed, Sloane points out that \u201ctoo often, women have been told these are marginal, or a distraction to the real issue \u2013 whether that is independence or selection\u201d. The hope is \u201cwomen leaders will no longer allow these to be pushed aside\u201d.Of course not everyone judges female politicians solely on their work \u2013 their appearance and clothes are often under just as much scrutiny, even in 2014. At the Labour conference this year, a story on the equalities minister was headlined, \u201cGlorious Gloria tells it in black and white\u201d, referring to her monochrome dress rather than her speech, while the Daily Mail\u2019s \u201cDowning St catwalk\u201d dominated their coverage of the last reshuffle. \u201cThe previous female Scottish Labour leader, Wendy Alexander, had a terrible time for apparently wearing low-cut tops \u2013 it was nonsense,\u201d says Davidson. \u201cIf there were more female journalists, the media pack [wouldn\u2019t] have focused on that.\u201d And such reporting is unlikely to change, says a despondent Stewart: \u201cWill the papers get bored of [talking about their looks]? I won\u2019t hold my breath.\u201dAs for heralding a new form of politics, Sloane says women are often elected during crises for the party in opposition to bring in change, as Davidson and Lamont were. After the financial crises in Iceland, for instance, women leaders replaced men in a bid to create a new, clean politics. Yet today, those female politicians are no longer in charge of their parties. While the Scottish parliament is doing better than Westminster for gender parity \u2013 36% of MSPs are women \u2013 Sturgeon is cautious. It \u201cdoesn\u2019t mean the battle for equality has been won. In 1999, when the parliament started, we had one of the best proportions of female representation of any legislator in the world \u2013 we were third \u2013 and that has slipped back. So leadership and visible role models are important, but not of themselves enough.\u201dWhich is why, says Stewart, Women for Independence will be calling for 50/50 representation of women and men at Holyrood, and why, last Sunday, a cross-party group of MSPs from Labour, SNP, Greens and Liberal Democrats called for legal quotas for Holyrood, local government and public bodies in Scotland.Yet such parity is important, not to tick boxes, but to make better policies, says Sloane. \u201cThere is evidence that mixed groups make better decisions overall, which is why you have huge efforts from multinationals to recruit more women into high roles.\u201dMoving to Scotland in the hope of a more equal society, then, may be premature, but there is sure-fire progress dismissing claims \u2013 such as those made by MP Austin Mitchell \u2013 that female politicians are not \u201ctough\u201d enough. \u201cAustin Mitchell,\u201d says Davidson cheerily, \u201cis a dinosaur. I wish him well in his retirement \u2013 and you can quote me on that.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Women in politics", "Gender", "Women", "UK news", "Life and style", "Feminism"], "title": "Is post-referendum Scotland a feminist paradise?"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-08-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On Sunday, a trilogy of history plays I've written will open at\u00a0the Edinburgh international festival. They go by\u00a0the collective title The James Plays, and each imagines events and characters from the reigns of three medieval Scottish kings, James I, James II and James III.We've been in rehearsal since the beginning of April; a cast of 20 and a supporting team have been living in an\u00a0imaginary 15th-century Scotland for\u00a0four months. We've moved this fictional world from rehearsal rooms in Glasgow to London to Birmingham and now, finally, into Edinburgh, in a vast caravan of scaffolding, puppets and exhausted actors. The plays were commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland back in 2011, and I've been working on them for three years. For the first two years they were still only real in my head, shared with a few readers. Now\u00a0my characters are all grown up, running around a real stage waving swords, living and dying, loving and murdering, dancing and telling jokes.There have been many points in this process when I've looked at the other professionals, actors, creative team, stage management, and wondered not only why they're doing this, but why they're doing it with such energy and enthusiasm. Why go through all this to tell the stories of Scottish history to a contemporary audience? What was my fascination with these stories? Why write history plays at all?I have a rather average honours degree in history from Edinburgh University \u2013 my enthusiasm for my subject was not reflected in academic application \u2013 but what I loved then and\u00a0love now is the sensation of seeing\u00a0the past take solid form in the\u00a0present as the reasons for contemporary actions and attitudes are uncovered by the study of forgotten events. And these are forgotten events \u2013 the kings and queens and long dead Scots I've imagined have become almost invisible.When I started to write the plays there were two phrases I heard repeatedly. One was apologetic, as people would admit, sheepishly: \"I\u00a0don't know much about this period of\u00a0history.\" But the truth is that no one\u00a0knows much about it. The other reaction, when I said I was writing a play about James I of Scotland, often came with a slight air of rebuke: \"Oh he's really James VI you know.\" \"No,\" I'd say, \"Not James I of England, not James I and VI, James I of Scotland,\" only to see a puzzled frown descend as they struggled to catch my meaning.Scotland had six kings called James between 1424 and 1603, when James VI also became James I of England. (Mary Queen of Scots was between V and VI.) But their stories are not taught in schools and \u2013 apart from some tremendous novels, such as those by\u00a0Nigel Tranter \u2013 have been largely neglected by popular culture. So that was the first reason for writing The James Plays, to allow a tiny piece of Scotland's past to be better known.However it was never my intention to provide a dramatised history lesson. Instead, my desire was to tell stories about love, war, family, loyalty and the\u00a0extremes of human emotion in the extreme conditions that the middle ages provided.I think sometimes we like to patronise the characters of history. Because we can't see any vivid evidence of their humanity \u2013 the traces of\u00a0their lives survive mainly in stone or in scraps of legal documents \u2013 we tend to imagine them as dull, humourless creatures. My own opinion is that intelligence and emotions would not have been substantially different in the\u00a015th century from what they are\u00a0today. In the plays, most of the characters inherited power and responsibility at an age we would consider frighteningly young. All of\u00a0them demonstrate thoughts and feelings familiar to a modern audience in language as contemporary as their own would have been to them.And for me that's another reason to write and watch history plays, for that thrill of recognising common humanity with the dead. It serves as a warning, we are no better, no more intelligent than them, if we don't understand our\u00a0past then we may repeat it. It's an\u00a0intimation of our mortality, they were just like us and now they're gone,\u00a0but it's also a connection with our ancestors. Not that I imagine we're\u00a0all descended from Scottish royals, but when a community is as small as medieval Scotland was, a lot of\u00a0us will be descended from people who knew them or were, at the very least, affected by their actions and their personalities.Then there is the significance of staging these plays now, this year, when Scotland is deciding what the next few hundred years of its history might look like. At the time I started working on them it seemed likely that a referendum on independence would be called. As it became a certainty I\u00a0hoped I'd be lucky enough to put the\u00a0plays in front of an audience this year. I don't claim they make a heavy contribution to the argument for one side or the other, but, if I've done my job well enough, I hope they will remain entertaining and relevant beyond this moment. However there can be few things more useful, at a point when Scotland is deciding its future, than taking a look into its past.\u00a0The 15th century holds up a fascinating mirror to Scotland and to her relations with England. James I was\u00a0England's prisoner and sent home\u00a0with an English bride, almost as\u00a0a vassal king, only to become a\u00a0strong and independent ruler. James\u00a0II\u00a0made war on England, James\u00a0III alternated between courting English favour and gold and trying to\u00a0do a better deal with\u00a0France. All of\u00a0them lived in the shadow of their larger, richer, southern\u00a0neighbour, and\u00a0it was\u00a0fascinating to trace some of\u00a0our contemporary attitudes to that relationship back to the time of these queens and kings, when violent and\u00a0epic events touched each succeeding\u00a0generation.\u2022 The James Plays run from 10 to 22 August at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh. eif.co.uk", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Edinburgh festival", "Festivals", "Edinburgh festival 2014", "Rona Munro"], "title": "The lost kings of Scotland"},{"date": "2014-09-30T17:04:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If you thought some key social policy aspirations in the Scottish government\u2019s ambitious independence white paper were shelved after last month\u2019s referendum perhaps it\u2019s time to think again.Whatever the outcome of talks designed to give Scotland fuller self-government within the UK \u2013 and the three main Westminster parties promised the earth to secure a no vote \u2013 Holyrood will shortly begin the process of assuming some taxation powers under legislation approved by Westminster in 2012.A new body, Revenue Scotland, will be created next year to oversee a Scottish rate of income tax from 2016 \u2013 for some a modest, but nonetheless significant step towards fuller fiscal autonomy.Under this deal, the Scottish government will control 10% of income tax revenue, worth around \u00a35bn \u2013 giving it the power to raise tax above this level to fund ambitious social care programmes outlined in last year\u2019s white paper.It made clear an independent Scotland would not be required \u201cto raise the general rate of taxation to fund existing levels of spending\u201d. But how, you might ask, could the country fund, say, one key plan for \u201ctransformational changes in childcare\u201d from the age of one \u2013 creating an estimated 35,000 jobs \u2013 without raising spending?One leading Scottish finance expert is in no doubt that Holyrood \u2013 if it has the political will \u2013 will soon have the ability to begin an ambitious social care programme, moving towards a Nordic model lauded in that white paper.The Scottish government\u2019s cabinet secretary for finance, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney, says cautiously that the administration will have to decide towards the end of next year about what rate of income tax it should recommend to Holyrood.\u201cNo decisions have yet been taken about setting the rate \u2013 at 10p, above or below that level,\u201d his department added. \u201cClearly these will be major decisions.\u201d Too right.Of course, much will depend on the outcome of a fast-track commission, under the businessman Lord Smith of Kelvin, tasked with overseeing the process of greater devolution in line with the promises made by the three main Westminster party leaders. Agreement is needed by the end of November so that the draft bill can be published by 25 January, Burns night.The Tories, for instance, want all tax to be transferred; Labour, while favouring the transfer of some welfare functions, such as attendance allowance and housing benefit, has been more cautious \u2013 although the former prime minister Gordon Brown promised Scots they would be rewarded with a \u201cmodern form of Scottish home rule\u201d if they remained in the union.For his part, Swinney \u2013 a member of Lord Smith\u2019s commission \u2013 notes that the three main parties vowed to deliver substantial further devolution that included a \u201csignificant transfer of taxation and welfare powers\u201d.The ideological divide between Labour and the SNP in the UK \u2013 though, not necessarily, with a semi-detached Scottish Labour \u2013 appears wide. Swinney, for instance, is at odds with the continued austerity favoured by the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls \u2013 preferring a fiscal stimulus to help revive the economy.Viewed from the outside, it\u2019s hard yet to see an agreement in the Smith commission that will satisfy the SNP government \u2013 although, to be fair, discussions have barely begun. But, assuming that some welfare and more taxation powers will be devolved to Holyrood, supplementing those already agreed for 2016, the implications for England will be profound.How long, for instance, will English councils be prepared to operate in the vice of an ever-tightening funding settlement \u2013 they\u2019ve already made savings of \u00a310bn in this parliament \u2013 when Scots are granted a degree of fiscal independence while still enjoying a more generous Whitehall funding settlement?On the back of the referendum, Scotland is right to press Westminster to honour pledges made in the heat of last month\u2019s campaign. But next year, England, the ultimate centralised state, deserves some reciprocity.", "tags": ["Local government", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Society"], "title": "The taxing questions facing Scotland and England"},{"date": "2014-09-30T09:07:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Should the rest of us just move to Scotland? The wild wooing of the referendum campaign has done its work and it\u2019s hard to shake the idea everything is better north of the border \u2013 no university fees, no prescription charges, politically engaged young people and now, the historic and groundbreaking prospect that Holyrood\u2019s three main political parties will all be led by women.Nicola Sturgeon, who is expected to succeed first minister Alex Salmond this week, will become Scotland\u2019s first female leader, joining Conservative Ruth Davidson and Labour\u2019s Johann Lamont in a triumphant triumvirate of women in the country\u2019s most powerful political positions. It\u2019s an unprecedented situation in the UK and a stark comparison to our three Oxbridge-educated, career politicians with privileged backgrounds, born just a few years apart. Any steps to change that are often faced by howls of protest \u2013 the last-minute cabinet reshuffle, for instance, was dubbed the Night of the Long Wives \u2013 despite just five of 22 cabinet members being women. And yet, without any fanfare, Scotland lines up three state-educated women, aged between 35 and 57, who have worked in journalism and the Territorial Army (Davidson), teaching (Lamont) and the law (Sturgeon).\u201cWhen I became leader, I got so many emails,\u201d Davidson tells me. \u201cMainly from gay, male, teenagers who said, \u2018I\u2019m interested in politics, but thought I could never get on because I am gay.\u2019 It never struck me before that it mattered who the leader was to people who weren\u2019t in your party, but \u2026 it does.\u201d Sturgeon agrees \u2013 Scotland\u2019s feminist moment isn\u2019t simply symbolic: \u201cIt sends a powerful signal about equality, and the cracking of the glass ceiling.\u201d Her party is now the third biggest in the UK \u2013 ahead of the Liberal Democrats. But apart from the refreshing change of seeing three women in charge, will the testosterone-fuelled culture that spawned the so-called Punch and Judy politics be reined in? Will the pay gap disappear, childcare be prioritised and domestic violence convictions soar?Nan Sloane, from Counting Women In, says she is \u201ccautiously excited\u201d as it\u2019s \u201ceasy to make assumptions about how women in leadership roles behave, and then offload on to them the responsibility for cultural change\u201d. Men, she says, are still needed on board to usher in societal change.It\u2019s a point backed up by Susan Stewart from Women for Independence, a grassroots campaigning group, who says, \u201cMany of us hoped that the 1999 intake of female MSPs would lead to a more consensual politics, but that didn\u2019t happen.\u201d Notionally, the idea of three women facing each other down at first minister\u2019s questions could herald that change. Sloane, however, believes that behind the scenes, these three women may be more willing to listen to each other. Lamont herself admits, \u201cPeople think that politicians shouting at each other is not about them,\u201d and while Davidson believes more could be done to \u201clower the temperature\u201d of parliamentary debates, Sturgeon cannily says: \u201cIf I am elected, there may be an opportunity to change the tone for the better.\u201dIt makes sense that increased gender balance in politics does correlate with stronger outcomes for gender equality, yet Davidson thinks that one more woman is unlikely to mean childcare, the pay gap and violence against women will radically change: \u201cAlex Salmond has not been stopping those discussions from happening because he is a man \u2013 there are many accusations I could throw at the first minister, but that\u2019s not one of them.\u201dWhether the consensus will be changed by stealth or speed, Sloane points out that \u201ctoo often, women have been told these are marginal, or a distraction to the real issue \u2013 whether that is independence or selection\u201d. The hope is \u201cwomen leaders will no longer allow these to be pushed aside\u201d.Of course not everyone judges female politicians solely on their work \u2013 their appearance and clothes are often under just as much scrutiny, even in 2014. At the Labour conference this year, a story on the equalities minister was headlined, \u201cGlorious Gloria tells it in black and white\u201d, referring to her monochrome dress rather than her speech, while the Daily Mail\u2019s \u201cDowning St catwalk\u201d dominated their coverage of the last reshuffle. \u201cThe previous female Scottish Labour leader, Wendy Alexander, had a terrible time for apparently wearing low-cut tops \u2013 it was nonsense,\u201d says Davidson. \u201cIf there were more female journalists, the media pack [wouldn\u2019t] have focused on that.\u201d And such reporting is unlikely to change, says a despondent Stewart: \u201cWill the papers get bored of [talking about their looks]? I won\u2019t hold my breath.\u201dAs for heralding a new form of politics, Sloane says women are often elected during crises for the party in opposition to bring in change, as Davidson and Lamont were. After the financial crises in Iceland, for instance, women leaders replaced men in a bid to create a new, clean politics. Yet today, those female politicians are no longer in charge of their parties. While the Scottish parliament is doing better than Westminster for gender parity \u2013 36% of MSPs are women \u2013 Sturgeon is cautious. It \u201cdoesn\u2019t mean the battle for equality has been won. In 1999, when the parliament started, we had one of the best proportions of female representation of any legislator in the world \u2013 we were third \u2013 and that has slipped back. So leadership and visible role models are important, but not of themselves enough.\u201dWhich is why, says Stewart, Women for Independence will be calling for 50/50 representation of women and men at Holyrood, and why, last Sunday, a cross-party group of MSPs from Labour, SNP, Greens and Liberal Democrats called for legal quotas for Holyrood, local government and public bodies in Scotland.Yet such parity is important, not to tick boxes, but to make better policies, says Sloane. \u201cThere is evidence that mixed groups make better decisions overall, which is why you have huge efforts from multinationals to recruit more women into high roles.\u201dMoving to Scotland in the hope of a more equal society, then, may be premature, but there is sure-fire progress dismissing claims \u2013 such as those made by MP Austin Mitchell \u2013 that female politicians are not \u201ctough\u201d enough. \u201cAustin Mitchell,\u201d says Davidson cheerily, \u201cis a dinosaur. I wish him well in his retirement \u2013 and you can quote me on that.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Women in politics", "Gender", "Women", "UK news", "Life and style", "Feminism"], "title": "Is post-referendum Scotland a feminist paradise?"},{"date": "2014-09-24T11:06:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Less than 24 hours after Scotland headed to the polls, the Guardian newsroom gathered to discuss the results of the Scottish independence referendum. In a talk chaired by Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger, the audience and the journalists explored what the no vote meant for the future of the UK.Fresh after the fast shift of the debate from Scotland to England when the no vote was confirmed, the panel started with Westminster\u2019s reaction.\u201cIt was very interesting how fast David Cameron went back to business as usual, outside Downing Street,\u201d said Polly Toynbee. \u201cThis is visceral, blood politics in the run up to the next British election. \u2018I won\u2019t betray them\u2019 he said, but the promises are not all that clear when you look at them carefully.\u201d\u201cEngland needs regional government,\u201d Deborah Orr said. \u201cWe have got two houses at Westminster, one of which is unelected, one of them just needs to be dismantled and devolved out to the regions. Not so there are more politicians, but so we in the electorate are voting for politicians who are living amongst us, as well as in London.\u201dPhillip Inman is the Guardian\u2019s economics correspondent. \u201cHaving been around Europe and speaking to people, you see that people believe that their politicians will be throwing away their savings for some kind of nebulous promise of growth in the future,\u201d he said. \u201cI disagree with Deborah; I think politicians absolutely get it. They know their constituents are very conservative with a small c. At the next general election the majority of voters will be over 55 and they\u2019re not really going to care about young voters have to say.\u201dAlan Rusbridger asked the audience if they could\u2019ve, who would have voted yes or no. The majority in the room said they would have voted no.Guardian data journalist James Ball spoke about motivations driving the no vote, in a referendum where there was no exit poll. \u201cPeople have voted with their wallets, in their economic interests,\u201d he said. \u201cThere was only an affect of somewhere being a big SNP area if you controlled for deprivation, income, unemployment. If you did that, SNP areas were a little bit more likely to turn to yes \u2013 but not much. So people looked at the information and made fairly individual decisions but that didn\u2019t really base it off an idea or ideology. Maybe three or four years ago when the economy was worse, it would have gone differently.\u201dJames also addressed the high reported turnout among 16 and 17 year olds, who had been allowed to vote for the first time - based on a count that may have been misleading. \u201cYou might have heard a lot people talking about how 16 and 17 year olds really turned out and really voted for yes,\u201d he said, \u201cbut that was based on Lord Ashcroft doing a poll which talked to fourteen 16- and 17-year olds,\u201d he said.The discussion moved on to the promises made by Westminster to give Scotland more powers, as well as the prospect of only English MPs voting on English laws.An audience member suggested that the House of Lords should be moved to another city or region, or that it could be mobile. Polly said big changes would need to be made to the House of Lords for the new system to be representative of England and Scotland. \u201cHow can you have legislation that is passed by this quite peculiar breed of English-only MPS but then the entire House of Lords \u2013 some of them might be Scots- get to vote on it too? That makes no sense of all,\u201d she said. \u201cWhen you think about devolution, you begin to think about that second chamber for a different use.\u201d\u201cWe can\u2019t just carve up Britain \u2013 we need areas to come forward and say: \u2018We want to be a region\u2019, but be viable. They need to be small enough for constituents to feel a sense of identity and big enough,\u201d she said.Originally from Yorkshire, James spoke about the feeling there. \u201cYorkshire doesn\u2019t have its own media, its own political representation, it is barely covered by the media,\u201d he said. \u201cIts bigger than Wales, much richer than Wales and as big as Scotland. And it is nonexistent, in terms of national awareness. There a lot of places in the UK like that.\u201d\u201cBut would Leeds and Bradford and Sheffield want to ball their strong individual identities under one power, ruling from somewhere else?\u201d asked Deborah.James acknowledged there were many benefits in being a union, as well as risks in regionalising Britain. \u201cI don\u2019t know how we would get that conversation to work,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t know if we could avoid becoming this inchoate, greedy thing. There is more there than the romance of history: we can use the union to do some really conquering, bloody good things.\u201dGuardian reporter Hugh Muir was in the crowd and spoke about the potential for future change \u2013 as long as the public remained engaged.One audience member said that Scotland had a disruptive catalyst and that the prospect of leaving forced people to participate. The panel talked about John Harris\u2019 series of videos on the referendum, which showed a high level of political engagement in homes and on streets. The Scottish author Irvine Welsh\u2019s piece on Scotland\u2019s \u201cglorious failure\u201d also argued that the Scots had reinvigorated democracy for all the UK. But Phillip said that he thought English apathy was still high.\u201cSpeaking to charity workers, even when you\u2019ve got money and you\u2019ve got hope and you bring things into areas with poverty, still people are passive,\u201d he said. \u201cThey have nothing \u2013 they will stay inside and watch DVD boxsets and won\u2019t go to a townhall meeting. That\u2019s not everywhere, but they report in general, England have become quite pacified and welfarised.\u201dDeborah disagreed that the English would necessarily remain apathetic. \u201cIn Scotland, people stopped nursing their beers and went to their town meetings, so it can be built,\u201d she said. \u201cWhat a terrific thing; that must be held on to.\u201dOne audience member said he felt that the dominance of London ruins life for ordinary Londoners. James agreed. \u201cWhy should England get this awful shortchange deal where you get the crumbs on the table of the bits of devolution that the other place have chosen? You don\u2019t get a second parliament, you get more bloody London. We\u2019re sick of London. England is not happy with London for right or wrong. Shouldn\u2019t it be a different town or institution that the English people get a say?\u201cLondon does already have some devolved powers and its own government,\u201d Deborah said, \u201cso should it be English votes for English people \u2013 but only outside London? London get two votes like the Scots do.\u201dPhillip spoke about the recent Swedish elections, where, following European trends, the far right party skyrocketed to 12.9% of the vote. \u201cEvery country is trying to find ways to maintain their income. We have this intergenerational shift and we have to be very aware of the young people. We\u2019ve seen in Scotland where a lot of young people got involved and I\u2019d love to see the same in England but I am quite gloomy at our ability to energise them.\u201dThe debate concluded with a move to the bar, not before the Guardian\u2019s deputy editor Paul Johnson revealed the cover of the Saturday newspaper to the audience ahead of print, complete with an exclusive referendum poem: September 2014, by poet laureate Carol Anne Duffy.Are you on Twitter and attending a Guardian Live event? Be sure to tweet the hashtag #GuardianEvent when you go and let us know what you think!Are you interested in Guardian Live events? See the current listings.", "tags": ["Membership", "Scotland", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Alan Rusbridger"], "title": "Guardian Live: Scotland Decides \u2013 as it happened"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-08-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On Sunday, a trilogy of history plays I've written will open at\u00a0the Edinburgh international festival. They go by\u00a0the collective title The James Plays, and each imagines events and characters from the reigns of three medieval Scottish kings, James I, James II and James III.We've been in rehearsal since the beginning of April; a cast of 20 and a supporting team have been living in an\u00a0imaginary 15th-century Scotland for\u00a0four months. We've moved this fictional world from rehearsal rooms in Glasgow to London to Birmingham and now, finally, into Edinburgh, in a vast caravan of scaffolding, puppets and exhausted actors. The plays were commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland back in 2011, and I've been working on them for three years. For the first two years they were still only real in my head, shared with a few readers. Now\u00a0my characters are all grown up, running around a real stage waving swords, living and dying, loving and murdering, dancing and telling jokes.There have been many points in this process when I've looked at the other professionals, actors, creative team, stage management, and wondered not only why they're doing this, but why they're doing it with such energy and enthusiasm. Why go through all this to tell the stories of Scottish history to a contemporary audience? What was my fascination with these stories? Why write history plays at all?I have a rather average honours degree in history from Edinburgh University \u2013 my enthusiasm for my subject was not reflected in academic application \u2013 but what I loved then and\u00a0love now is the sensation of seeing\u00a0the past take solid form in the\u00a0present as the reasons for contemporary actions and attitudes are uncovered by the study of forgotten events. And these are forgotten events \u2013 the kings and queens and long dead Scots I've imagined have become almost invisible.When I started to write the plays there were two phrases I heard repeatedly. One was apologetic, as people would admit, sheepishly: \"I\u00a0don't know much about this period of\u00a0history.\" But the truth is that no one\u00a0knows much about it. The other reaction, when I said I was writing a play about James I of Scotland, often came with a slight air of rebuke: \"Oh he's really James VI you know.\" \"No,\" I'd say, \"Not James I of England, not James I and VI, James I of Scotland,\" only to see a puzzled frown descend as they struggled to catch my meaning.Scotland had six kings called James between 1424 and 1603, when James VI also became James I of England. (Mary Queen of Scots was between V and VI.) But their stories are not taught in schools and \u2013 apart from some tremendous novels, such as those by\u00a0Nigel Tranter \u2013 have been largely neglected by popular culture. So that was the first reason for writing The James Plays, to allow a tiny piece of Scotland's past to be better known.However it was never my intention to provide a dramatised history lesson. Instead, my desire was to tell stories about love, war, family, loyalty and the\u00a0extremes of human emotion in the extreme conditions that the middle ages provided.I think sometimes we like to patronise the characters of history. Because we can't see any vivid evidence of their humanity \u2013 the traces of\u00a0their lives survive mainly in stone or in scraps of legal documents \u2013 we tend to imagine them as dull, humourless creatures. My own opinion is that intelligence and emotions would not have been substantially different in the\u00a015th century from what they are\u00a0today. In the plays, most of the characters inherited power and responsibility at an age we would consider frighteningly young. All of\u00a0them demonstrate thoughts and feelings familiar to a modern audience in language as contemporary as their own would have been to them.And for me that's another reason to write and watch history plays, for that thrill of recognising common humanity with the dead. It serves as a warning, we are no better, no more intelligent than them, if we don't understand our\u00a0past then we may repeat it. It's an\u00a0intimation of our mortality, they were just like us and now they're gone,\u00a0but it's also a connection with our ancestors. Not that I imagine we're\u00a0all descended from Scottish royals, but when a community is as small as medieval Scotland was, a lot of\u00a0us will be descended from people who knew them or were, at the very least, affected by their actions and their personalities.Then there is the significance of staging these plays now, this year, when Scotland is deciding what the next few hundred years of its history might look like. At the time I started working on them it seemed likely that a referendum on independence would be called. As it became a certainty I\u00a0hoped I'd be lucky enough to put the\u00a0plays in front of an audience this year. I don't claim they make a heavy contribution to the argument for one side or the other, but, if I've done my job well enough, I hope they will remain entertaining and relevant beyond this moment. However there can be few things more useful, at a point when Scotland is deciding its future, than taking a look into its past.\u00a0The 15th century holds up a fascinating mirror to Scotland and to her relations with England. James I was\u00a0England's prisoner and sent home\u00a0with an English bride, almost as\u00a0a vassal king, only to become a\u00a0strong and independent ruler. James\u00a0II\u00a0made war on England, James\u00a0III alternated between courting English favour and gold and trying to\u00a0do a better deal with\u00a0France. All of\u00a0them lived in the shadow of their larger, richer, southern\u00a0neighbour, and\u00a0it was\u00a0fascinating to trace some of\u00a0our contemporary attitudes to that relationship back to the time of these queens and kings, when violent and\u00a0epic events touched each succeeding\u00a0generation.\u2022 The James Plays run from 10 to 22 August at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh. eif.co.uk", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Edinburgh festival", "Festivals", "Edinburgh festival 2014", "Rona Munro"], "title": "The lost kings of Scotland"},{"date": "2014-09-30T17:04:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If you thought some key social policy aspirations in the Scottish government\u2019s ambitious independence white paper were shelved after last month\u2019s referendum perhaps it\u2019s time to think again.Whatever the outcome of talks designed to give Scotland fuller self-government within the UK \u2013 and the three main Westminster parties promised the earth to secure a no vote \u2013 Holyrood will shortly begin the process of assuming some taxation powers under legislation approved by Westminster in 2012.A new body, Revenue Scotland, will be created next year to oversee a Scottish rate of income tax from 2016 \u2013 for some a modest, but nonetheless significant step towards fuller fiscal autonomy.Under this deal, the Scottish government will control 10% of income tax revenue, worth around \u00a35bn \u2013 giving it the power to raise tax above this level to fund ambitious social care programmes outlined in last year\u2019s white paper.It made clear an independent Scotland would not be required \u201cto raise the general rate of taxation to fund existing levels of spending\u201d. But how, you might ask, could the country fund, say, one key plan for \u201ctransformational changes in childcare\u201d from the age of one \u2013 creating an estimated 35,000 jobs \u2013 without raising spending?One leading Scottish finance expert is in no doubt that Holyrood \u2013 if it has the political will \u2013 will soon have the ability to begin an ambitious social care programme, moving towards a Nordic model lauded in that white paper.The Scottish government\u2019s cabinet secretary for finance, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney, says cautiously that the administration will have to decide towards the end of next year about what rate of income tax it should recommend to Holyrood.\u201cNo decisions have yet been taken about setting the rate \u2013 at 10p, above or below that level,\u201d his department added. \u201cClearly these will be major decisions.\u201d Too right.Of course, much will depend on the outcome of a fast-track commission, under the businessman Lord Smith of Kelvin, tasked with overseeing the process of greater devolution in line with the promises made by the three main Westminster party leaders. Agreement is needed by the end of November so that the draft bill can be published by 25 January, Burns night.The Tories, for instance, want all tax to be transferred; Labour, while favouring the transfer of some welfare functions, such as attendance allowance and housing benefit, has been more cautious \u2013 although the former prime minister Gordon Brown promised Scots they would be rewarded with a \u201cmodern form of Scottish home rule\u201d if they remained in the union.For his part, Swinney \u2013 a member of Lord Smith\u2019s commission \u2013 notes that the three main parties vowed to deliver substantial further devolution that included a \u201csignificant transfer of taxation and welfare powers\u201d.The ideological divide between Labour and the SNP in the UK \u2013 though, not necessarily, with a semi-detached Scottish Labour \u2013 appears wide. Swinney, for instance, is at odds with the continued austerity favoured by the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls \u2013 preferring a fiscal stimulus to help revive the economy.Viewed from the outside, it\u2019s hard yet to see an agreement in the Smith commission that will satisfy the SNP government \u2013 although, to be fair, discussions have barely begun. But, assuming that some welfare and more taxation powers will be devolved to Holyrood, supplementing those already agreed for 2016, the implications for England will be profound.How long, for instance, will English councils be prepared to operate in the vice of an ever-tightening funding settlement \u2013 they\u2019ve already made savings of \u00a310bn in this parliament \u2013 when Scots are granted a degree of fiscal independence while still enjoying a more generous Whitehall funding settlement?On the back of the referendum, Scotland is right to press Westminster to honour pledges made in the heat of last month\u2019s campaign. But next year, England, the ultimate centralised state, deserves some reciprocity.", "tags": ["Local government", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Society"], "title": "The taxing questions facing Scotland and England"},{"date": "2014-09-30T09:07:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Should the rest of us just move to Scotland? The wild wooing of the referendum campaign has done its work and it\u2019s hard to shake the idea everything is better north of the border \u2013 no university fees, no prescription charges, politically engaged young people and now, the historic and groundbreaking prospect that Holyrood\u2019s three main political parties will all be led by women.Nicola Sturgeon, who is expected to succeed first minister Alex Salmond this week, will become Scotland\u2019s first female leader, joining Conservative Ruth Davidson and Labour\u2019s Johann Lamont in a triumphant triumvirate of women in the country\u2019s most powerful political positions. It\u2019s an unprecedented situation in the UK and a stark comparison to our three Oxbridge-educated, career politicians with privileged backgrounds, born just a few years apart. Any steps to change that are often faced by howls of protest \u2013 the last-minute cabinet reshuffle, for instance, was dubbed the Night of the Long Wives \u2013 despite just five of 22 cabinet members being women. And yet, without any fanfare, Scotland lines up three state-educated women, aged between 35 and 57, who have worked in journalism and the Territorial Army (Davidson), teaching (Lamont) and the law (Sturgeon).\u201cWhen I became leader, I got so many emails,\u201d Davidson tells me. \u201cMainly from gay, male, teenagers who said, \u2018I\u2019m interested in politics, but thought I could never get on because I am gay.\u2019 It never struck me before that it mattered who the leader was to people who weren\u2019t in your party, but \u2026 it does.\u201d Sturgeon agrees \u2013 Scotland\u2019s feminist moment isn\u2019t simply symbolic: \u201cIt sends a powerful signal about equality, and the cracking of the glass ceiling.\u201d Her party is now the third biggest in the UK \u2013 ahead of the Liberal Democrats. But apart from the refreshing change of seeing three women in charge, will the testosterone-fuelled culture that spawned the so-called Punch and Judy politics be reined in? Will the pay gap disappear, childcare be prioritised and domestic violence convictions soar?Nan Sloane, from Counting Women In, says she is \u201ccautiously excited\u201d as it\u2019s \u201ceasy to make assumptions about how women in leadership roles behave, and then offload on to them the responsibility for cultural change\u201d. Men, she says, are still needed on board to usher in societal change.It\u2019s a point backed up by Susan Stewart from Women for Independence, a grassroots campaigning group, who says, \u201cMany of us hoped that the 1999 intake of female MSPs would lead to a more consensual politics, but that didn\u2019t happen.\u201d Notionally, the idea of three women facing each other down at first minister\u2019s questions could herald that change. Sloane, however, believes that behind the scenes, these three women may be more willing to listen to each other. Lamont herself admits, \u201cPeople think that politicians shouting at each other is not about them,\u201d and while Davidson believes more could be done to \u201clower the temperature\u201d of parliamentary debates, Sturgeon cannily says: \u201cIf I am elected, there may be an opportunity to change the tone for the better.\u201dIt makes sense that increased gender balance in politics does correlate with stronger outcomes for gender equality, yet Davidson thinks that one more woman is unlikely to mean childcare, the pay gap and violence against women will radically change: \u201cAlex Salmond has not been stopping those discussions from happening because he is a man \u2013 there are many accusations I could throw at the first minister, but that\u2019s not one of them.\u201dWhether the consensus will be changed by stealth or speed, Sloane points out that \u201ctoo often, women have been told these are marginal, or a distraction to the real issue \u2013 whether that is independence or selection\u201d. The hope is \u201cwomen leaders will no longer allow these to be pushed aside\u201d.Of course not everyone judges female politicians solely on their work \u2013 their appearance and clothes are often under just as much scrutiny, even in 2014. At the Labour conference this year, a story on the equalities minister was headlined, \u201cGlorious Gloria tells it in black and white\u201d, referring to her monochrome dress rather than her speech, while the Daily Mail\u2019s \u201cDowning St catwalk\u201d dominated their coverage of the last reshuffle. \u201cThe previous female Scottish Labour leader, Wendy Alexander, had a terrible time for apparently wearing low-cut tops \u2013 it was nonsense,\u201d says Davidson. \u201cIf there were more female journalists, the media pack [wouldn\u2019t] have focused on that.\u201d And such reporting is unlikely to change, says a despondent Stewart: \u201cWill the papers get bored of [talking about their looks]? I won\u2019t hold my breath.\u201dAs for heralding a new form of politics, Sloane says women are often elected during crises for the party in opposition to bring in change, as Davidson and Lamont were. After the financial crises in Iceland, for instance, women leaders replaced men in a bid to create a new, clean politics. Yet today, those female politicians are no longer in charge of their parties. While the Scottish parliament is doing better than Westminster for gender parity \u2013 36% of MSPs are women \u2013 Sturgeon is cautious. It \u201cdoesn\u2019t mean the battle for equality has been won. In 1999, when the parliament started, we had one of the best proportions of female representation of any legislator in the world \u2013 we were third \u2013 and that has slipped back. So leadership and visible role models are important, but not of themselves enough.\u201dWhich is why, says Stewart, Women for Independence will be calling for 50/50 representation of women and men at Holyrood, and why, last Sunday, a cross-party group of MSPs from Labour, SNP, Greens and Liberal Democrats called for legal quotas for Holyrood, local government and public bodies in Scotland.Yet such parity is important, not to tick boxes, but to make better policies, says Sloane. \u201cThere is evidence that mixed groups make better decisions overall, which is why you have huge efforts from multinationals to recruit more women into high roles.\u201dMoving to Scotland in the hope of a more equal society, then, may be premature, but there is sure-fire progress dismissing claims \u2013 such as those made by MP Austin Mitchell \u2013 that female politicians are not \u201ctough\u201d enough. \u201cAustin Mitchell,\u201d says Davidson cheerily, \u201cis a dinosaur. I wish him well in his retirement \u2013 and you can quote me on that.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Women in politics", "Gender", "Women", "UK news", "Life and style", "Feminism"], "title": "Is post-referendum Scotland a feminist paradise?"},{"date": "2014-09-24T11:06:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Less than 24 hours after Scotland headed to the polls, the Guardian newsroom gathered to discuss the results of the Scottish independence referendum. In a talk chaired by Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger, the audience and the journalists explored what the no vote meant for the future of the UK.Fresh after the fast shift of the debate from Scotland to England when the no vote was confirmed, the panel started with Westminster\u2019s reaction.\u201cIt was very interesting how fast David Cameron went back to business as usual, outside Downing Street,\u201d said Polly Toynbee. \u201cThis is visceral, blood politics in the run up to the next British election. \u2018I won\u2019t betray them\u2019 he said, but the promises are not all that clear when you look at them carefully.\u201d\u201cEngland needs regional government,\u201d Deborah Orr said. \u201cWe have got two houses at Westminster, one of which is unelected, one of them just needs to be dismantled and devolved out to the regions. Not so there are more politicians, but so we in the electorate are voting for politicians who are living amongst us, as well as in London.\u201dPhillip Inman is the Guardian\u2019s economics correspondent. \u201cHaving been around Europe and speaking to people, you see that people believe that their politicians will be throwing away their savings for some kind of nebulous promise of growth in the future,\u201d he said. \u201cI disagree with Deborah; I think politicians absolutely get it. They know their constituents are very conservative with a small c. At the next general election the majority of voters will be over 55 and they\u2019re not really going to care about young voters have to say.\u201dAlan Rusbridger asked the audience if they could\u2019ve, who would have voted yes or no. The majority in the room said they would have voted no.Guardian data journalist James Ball spoke about motivations driving the no vote, in a referendum where there was no exit poll. \u201cPeople have voted with their wallets, in their economic interests,\u201d he said. \u201cThere was only an affect of somewhere being a big SNP area if you controlled for deprivation, income, unemployment. If you did that, SNP areas were a little bit more likely to turn to yes \u2013 but not much. So people looked at the information and made fairly individual decisions but that didn\u2019t really base it off an idea or ideology. Maybe three or four years ago when the economy was worse, it would have gone differently.\u201dJames also addressed the high reported turnout among 16 and 17 year olds, who had been allowed to vote for the first time - based on a count that may have been misleading. \u201cYou might have heard a lot people talking about how 16 and 17 year olds really turned out and really voted for yes,\u201d he said, \u201cbut that was based on Lord Ashcroft doing a poll which talked to fourteen 16- and 17-year olds,\u201d he said.The discussion moved on to the promises made by Westminster to give Scotland more powers, as well as the prospect of only English MPs voting on English laws.An audience member suggested that the House of Lords should be moved to another city or region, or that it could be mobile. Polly said big changes would need to be made to the House of Lords for the new system to be representative of England and Scotland. \u201cHow can you have legislation that is passed by this quite peculiar breed of English-only MPS but then the entire House of Lords \u2013 some of them might be Scots- get to vote on it too? That makes no sense of all,\u201d she said. \u201cWhen you think about devolution, you begin to think about that second chamber for a different use.\u201d\u201cWe can\u2019t just carve up Britain \u2013 we need areas to come forward and say: \u2018We want to be a region\u2019, but be viable. They need to be small enough for constituents to feel a sense of identity and big enough,\u201d she said.Originally from Yorkshire, James spoke about the feeling there. \u201cYorkshire doesn\u2019t have its own media, its own political representation, it is barely covered by the media,\u201d he said. \u201cIts bigger than Wales, much richer than Wales and as big as Scotland. And it is nonexistent, in terms of national awareness. There a lot of places in the UK like that.\u201d\u201cBut would Leeds and Bradford and Sheffield want to ball their strong individual identities under one power, ruling from somewhere else?\u201d asked Deborah.James acknowledged there were many benefits in being a union, as well as risks in regionalising Britain. \u201cI don\u2019t know how we would get that conversation to work,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t know if we could avoid becoming this inchoate, greedy thing. There is more there than the romance of history: we can use the union to do some really conquering, bloody good things.\u201dGuardian reporter Hugh Muir was in the crowd and spoke about the potential for future change \u2013 as long as the public remained engaged.One audience member said that Scotland had a disruptive catalyst and that the prospect of leaving forced people to participate. The panel talked about John Harris\u2019 series of videos on the referendum, which showed a high level of political engagement in homes and on streets. The Scottish author Irvine Welsh\u2019s piece on Scotland\u2019s \u201cglorious failure\u201d also argued that the Scots had reinvigorated democracy for all the UK. But Phillip said that he thought English apathy was still high.\u201cSpeaking to charity workers, even when you\u2019ve got money and you\u2019ve got hope and you bring things into areas with poverty, still people are passive,\u201d he said. \u201cThey have nothing \u2013 they will stay inside and watch DVD boxsets and won\u2019t go to a townhall meeting. That\u2019s not everywhere, but they report in general, England have become quite pacified and welfarised.\u201dDeborah disagreed that the English would necessarily remain apathetic. \u201cIn Scotland, people stopped nursing their beers and went to their town meetings, so it can be built,\u201d she said. \u201cWhat a terrific thing; that must be held on to.\u201dOne audience member said he felt that the dominance of London ruins life for ordinary Londoners. James agreed. \u201cWhy should England get this awful shortchange deal where you get the crumbs on the table of the bits of devolution that the other place have chosen? You don\u2019t get a second parliament, you get more bloody London. We\u2019re sick of London. England is not happy with London for right or wrong. Shouldn\u2019t it be a different town or institution that the English people get a say?\u201cLondon does already have some devolved powers and its own government,\u201d Deborah said, \u201cso should it be English votes for English people \u2013 but only outside London? London get two votes like the Scots do.\u201dPhillip spoke about the recent Swedish elections, where, following European trends, the far right party skyrocketed to 12.9% of the vote. \u201cEvery country is trying to find ways to maintain their income. We have this intergenerational shift and we have to be very aware of the young people. We\u2019ve seen in Scotland where a lot of young people got involved and I\u2019d love to see the same in England but I am quite gloomy at our ability to energise them.\u201dThe debate concluded with a move to the bar, not before the Guardian\u2019s deputy editor Paul Johnson revealed the cover of the Saturday newspaper to the audience ahead of print, complete with an exclusive referendum poem: September 2014, by poet laureate Carol Anne Duffy.Are you on Twitter and attending a Guardian Live event? Be sure to tweet the hashtag #GuardianEvent when you go and let us know what you think!Are you interested in Guardian Live events? See the current listings.", "tags": ["Membership", "Scotland", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Alan Rusbridger"], "title": "Guardian Live: Scotland Decides \u2013 as it happened"},{"date": "2014-09-21T19:36:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "An attempt by David Cameron to outflank Labour on a new constitutional settlement for the UK ran into trouble on Sunday night when a senior Liberal Democrat cabinet minister said that the plans for devolution in England should not proceed without attempting a cross-party consensus.As Downing Street was forced to issue an unequivocal \"no ifs, no buts\" declaration that the prime minister would deliver further powers to the Scottish parliament, Danny Alexander, chief secretary to the Treasury, criticised the Conservatives' handling of the aftermath of last week's referendum north of the border.\"It is deeply frustrating that briefings over the last 48 hours have distracted from the crystal-clear commitment of all parties to deliver the change Scotland voted for last week,\" Alexander told the Guardian. He is likely to sit on a cabinet committee overseeing devolution.An 11th-hour vow by the three Westminster leaders last week, promising more devolution if Scotland rejected independence, has been in disarray after Cameron appeared to attach new conditions. The prime minister said on Friday that negotiations on only English MPs voting on English laws \"must take place in tandem with, and at the same pace, as the settlement for Scotland\".Fears that the Tories were planning to renege on the pledge were fuelled when the Scottish-born Conservative chief whip, Michael Gove, said on Saturday that it would be \"impossible\" to devolve further powers to Scotland without addressing the position of Scottish MPs at Westminster.No 10 was forced to clarify Gove's remarks, saying the prime minister was committed to the timetable agreed by the three main UK party leaders to hand greater powers over tax and welfare to the Scottish parliament. A government source said: \"There was an unambiguous commitment by the party leaders to deliver more devolution to Scotland on a clear timetable. That is not conditional on anything else. No ifs, no buts \u2013 that will occur.\"Government sources stressed that the two proposals \u2013 further devolution to Scotland and changing the status of Scottish MPs at Westminster \u2013 should be considered in parallel and at the same time. But the sources said that progress in one area would not depend on the other.The prime minister will host a summit at Chequers tomorrow with leading figures on the Tory right, such as the Eurosceptic senior backbencher Bernard Jenkin, to examine ways in which to restrict votes on English-only matters to MPs south of the border.Alexander spoke out after Alex Salmond and Alistair Darling, who led the opposing camps in the referendum, challenged the prime minister over his decision to link further devolution to Edinburgh to new restrictions on the voting rights of Scottish MPs.Alexander said that the proposals for England should be agreed with Labour. He told the Guardian: \"It has always been the case that the Scottish process must be independent of any other political discussions and must be dealt with according to the timetable we set out. For wider constitutional changes it would be preferable to have all-party consensus.\"The Lib Dem call for consensus means that there is unlikely to be agreement on the English element of the package by the time of the election. The Tories are making clear that, in such circumstances, they would include plans to limit Scottish MPs' voting rights in their general election manifesto. They would also attack Labour and the Lib Dems for failing to protect the interests of English voters.But Labour and the Lib Dems are likely to find common cause over the need for caution in addressing the status of Scottish MPs at Westminster. They say that, unlike the Scottish constitutional question that has dominated politics north of the border for four decades, there has been little debate on England-only matters.While Cameron has been urged to include measures on English votes for English laws, Labour leader Ed Miliband is also coming under pressure from some of his northern MPs. Some Labour MPs, led by the former cabinet minister John Denham, who is holding a crisis meeting of MPs at the Labour conference today, fear that the leadership has not grasped the significance of the English question. One Labour MP in the north said: \"Do I think Ed gets it? No. Do I think his Primrose Hill luvvie set get it? No, I don't.\"Salmond said earlier that those who voted no in the referendum would feel they had been \"misled\", \"gulled\" and \"tricked\" by Downing Street. Darling insisted that there could be no link between further powers for Holyrood and limiting Scottish MPs' voting rights at Westminster. The leader of the Better Together campaign told the Andrew Marr Show: \"The agreement reached by the three parties, as far as I am concerned, is non-negotiable. It was promised, it has got to be delivered. Anyone who welches on that will pay a very heavy price for years to come. It is simply non-negotiable.\"The proposal to devolve further powers to Holyrood is to be overseen by Lord Smith of Kelvin, a crossbench peer who will publish draft clauses for a parliamentary bill in January to be enacted after next year's election. The plans to address the West Lothian question, the anomaly whereby Scottish MPs can vote on English-only matters but English MPs have no say on devolved matters in Scotland, will be addressed by a cabinet committee. This will be chaired by William Hague, the leader of the Commons.The two parties are interested in the proposals by Sir William McKay, the former clerk of the House of Commons, that only English MPs should sit on the committee stage of a parliamentary bill that related just to England. Such legislation could then only be passed through a double majority voting system, achieving support of the majority of English MPs and the majority of the Commons as a whole.Downing Street received a boost when McKay said his reforms might have to be changed in light of the outcome of the referendum. He told The World This Weekend on BBC Radio 4: \"You can't lower any of our solutions, immediately and without amendment, into the present situation. They will have to be tweaked \u2013 a fairly hefty tweak, more a kick than a tweak.\"", "tags": ["Constitutional reform", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Danny Alexander", "Liberal Democrats", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Cameron faces pressure to seal Scotland deal"},{"date": "2014-09-10T12:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "With just over a week to go until Scotland votes on its independence, we\u2019ve been hearing from our readers how the narrowing polls are affecting the mood around the country.\u201cIts wonderful to be in Scotland at the moment,\u201d says Dell Henrickson. \u201cI have had chats in the pub, in the chip shop and on the street. All of it animated but good-natured. My moment of the campaign was talking to a young lassie who has never voted before and queued for 40 minutes just to get into the building to register.\u201d\u201cI will be voting no next week, my mind having been made up some time ago,\u201d says kirkrussell, \u201c[but] the momentum with the Yes campaign is readily evident.\u201dBelow are accounts from readers from across Scotland describing the atmosphere in their area. Wherever you are in the country, we\u2019d love to hear from you too. What\u2019s the mood where you are? Let us know via GuardianWitness, or in the comments thread below.In my neighbourhood there is a lot of lively if civilised debate about the referendum, balancing about 50/50 . The Yes\u2019 stickers are certainly bigger and bolder, and the No fraternity tend not to advertise. I myself, leaned No, yearned Yes, convinced myself No, and now am surreptitiously creeping Yes. Why? Partly because I never agreed with the current UK government policies on practically anything, so voting no would be a vote for that government and that stuck in my throat, and partly because it would be great for Scotland to stand on its own two feet and develop a national confidence that in some ways it has lacked. There is now almost a certain hysteria propelling the yes vote onwards but if that \u2018power\u2019 can be carried forward into achievements if Scotland gains independence then I suspect I know which way I\u2019ll vote. Pindle06I was working at the Yes stall at Perth College Freshers\u2019 Fair for the whole three days it was on, and I found that people really wanted to discuss things, and were very interested overall.We got a great response from my fellow college students, and it seemed like there were a lot of Yes-supporters/Yes-leaners amongst them. We even ran out of quite a few things, despite making extra trips to the local office to pick up more.In a wider context, more and more people in the area seem to be going towards a Yes vote, and posters and window stickers seem to be all over the place. I\u2019ve a lot of friends who are planning to vote Yes - quite a few of whom were undecided until recently; and even one that was, only a couple of months ago, a staunch No.Thankfully, there\u2019ve been no altercations or incidents that I\u2019m aware of, and the debate\u2019s been good-natured everywhere I\u2019ve been - even had some good chat with the people at the No stall while we were all packing up. This, more than all the news stories, is what I think the debate is really like: one of the most peaceful independence movements the world has ever seen. I couldn\u2019t be more glad I\u2019m a part of it.E\u00f3ghan MacmillanThere is a sense of disbelief among my friends and family that the referendum appears to be neck and neck. People in the Borders have a strong sense of identity and are proud to be Scottish. But that sits easily beside a calm faith in the Union and the desire to remain part of the UK.ID208248Oban is teeming - Yes stickers, badges and banners all over the place, and the local Yes shop canvas found that around 60% of people were definitely voting for independence. There is a huge banner on the isle of Kerrera that can be seen from distance. I\u2019ve come back through to Stirling for University and the atmosphere is slightly different. The Yes squad are very vocal, but students are incredibly split.  Jonzo67This is a rural market town in south west Scotland and there is the strangest thing going on; no one is talking about the referendum. If it is mentioned people clam up and make general non-committal remark. There is a fear here that showing allegiance either way will invite opposition, ridicule, and even effect your position, or business in the town. Whichever way the vote goes there will be collective sigh of relief on September 19th.IsabellaMcCHundreds of people milled around the statue of Donald Dewar in Buchanan Street on Saturday afternoon. The smiles said it all; real optimism, a tangible feeling of change, and a desire to share that feeling with other people. An impromptu flash mob filled the steps of the Concert Hall with Yes Campaign supporters, singing \u201cCaledonia\u201d and \u201cWild Mountain Thyme\u201d. It was peaceful, participative, sentimental, lively and joyful; a spontaneous surge of positivity and community after months of speculation, campaigning and debate. If the Yes campaign is not successful in convincing voters to choose independence, then it has been successful in one other crucial way; it has shown the rest of the UK that changing democracy can be a grassroots activity carried out by ordinary people, not just a legislative exercise for privileged and partisan elites.telekomSomeone said on Twitter today it feels like the whole of Scotland is making friends on Twitter and in real life: it really does. I can\u2019t count the number of new friends I\u2019ve made, most of them around my local area and new networks have sprung up that mean events can be organised last minute and still draw a crowd. Fergie4", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scotland", "David Cameron", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Scotland independence referendum: what's the mood around Scotland?"},{"date": "2014-08-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "On Sunday, a trilogy of history plays I've written will open at\u00a0the Edinburgh international festival. They go by\u00a0the collective title The James Plays, and each imagines events and characters from the reigns of three medieval Scottish kings, James I, James II and James III.We've been in rehearsal since the beginning of April; a cast of 20 and a supporting team have been living in an\u00a0imaginary 15th-century Scotland for\u00a0four months. We've moved this fictional world from rehearsal rooms in Glasgow to London to Birmingham and now, finally, into Edinburgh, in a vast caravan of scaffolding, puppets and exhausted actors. The plays were commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland back in 2011, and I've been working on them for three years. For the first two years they were still only real in my head, shared with a few readers. Now\u00a0my characters are all grown up, running around a real stage waving swords, living and dying, loving and murdering, dancing and telling jokes.There have been many points in this process when I've looked at the other professionals, actors, creative team, stage management, and wondered not only why they're doing this, but why they're doing it with such energy and enthusiasm. Why go through all this to tell the stories of Scottish history to a contemporary audience? What was my fascination with these stories? Why write history plays at all?I have a rather average honours degree in history from Edinburgh University \u2013 my enthusiasm for my subject was not reflected in academic application \u2013 but what I loved then and\u00a0love now is the sensation of seeing\u00a0the past take solid form in the\u00a0present as the reasons for contemporary actions and attitudes are uncovered by the study of forgotten events. And these are forgotten events \u2013 the kings and queens and long dead Scots I've imagined have become almost invisible.When I started to write the plays there were two phrases I heard repeatedly. One was apologetic, as people would admit, sheepishly: \"I\u00a0don't know much about this period of\u00a0history.\" But the truth is that no one\u00a0knows much about it. The other reaction, when I said I was writing a play about James I of Scotland, often came with a slight air of rebuke: \"Oh he's really James VI you know.\" \"No,\" I'd say, \"Not James I of England, not James I and VI, James I of Scotland,\" only to see a puzzled frown descend as they struggled to catch my meaning.Scotland had six kings called James between 1424 and 1603, when James VI also became James I of England. (Mary Queen of Scots was between V and VI.) But their stories are not taught in schools and \u2013 apart from some tremendous novels, such as those by\u00a0Nigel Tranter \u2013 have been largely neglected by popular culture. So that was the first reason for writing The James Plays, to allow a tiny piece of Scotland's past to be better known.However it was never my intention to provide a dramatised history lesson. Instead, my desire was to tell stories about love, war, family, loyalty and the\u00a0extremes of human emotion in the extreme conditions that the middle ages provided.I think sometimes we like to patronise the characters of history. Because we can't see any vivid evidence of their humanity \u2013 the traces of\u00a0their lives survive mainly in stone or in scraps of legal documents \u2013 we tend to imagine them as dull, humourless creatures. My own opinion is that intelligence and emotions would not have been substantially different in the\u00a015th century from what they are\u00a0today. In the plays, most of the characters inherited power and responsibility at an age we would consider frighteningly young. All of\u00a0them demonstrate thoughts and feelings familiar to a modern audience in language as contemporary as their own would have been to them.And for me that's another reason to write and watch history plays, for that thrill of recognising common humanity with the dead. It serves as a warning, we are no better, no more intelligent than them, if we don't understand our\u00a0past then we may repeat it. It's an\u00a0intimation of our mortality, they were just like us and now they're gone,\u00a0but it's also a connection with our ancestors. Not that I imagine we're\u00a0all descended from Scottish royals, but when a community is as small as medieval Scotland was, a lot of\u00a0us will be descended from people who knew them or were, at the very least, affected by their actions and their personalities.Then there is the significance of staging these plays now, this year, when Scotland is deciding what the next few hundred years of its history might look like. At the time I started working on them it seemed likely that a referendum on independence would be called. As it became a certainty I\u00a0hoped I'd be lucky enough to put the\u00a0plays in front of an audience this year. I don't claim they make a heavy contribution to the argument for one side or the other, but, if I've done my job well enough, I hope they will remain entertaining and relevant beyond this moment. However there can be few things more useful, at a point when Scotland is deciding its future, than taking a look into its past.\u00a0The 15th century holds up a fascinating mirror to Scotland and to her relations with England. James I was\u00a0England's prisoner and sent home\u00a0with an English bride, almost as\u00a0a vassal king, only to become a\u00a0strong and independent ruler. James\u00a0II\u00a0made war on England, James\u00a0III alternated between courting English favour and gold and trying to\u00a0do a better deal with\u00a0France. All of\u00a0them lived in the shadow of their larger, richer, southern\u00a0neighbour, and\u00a0it was\u00a0fascinating to trace some of\u00a0our contemporary attitudes to that relationship back to the time of these queens and kings, when violent and\u00a0epic events touched each succeeding\u00a0generation.\u2022 The James Plays run from 10 to 22 August at the Festival theatre, Edinburgh. eif.co.uk", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Edinburgh festival", "Festivals", "Edinburgh festival 2014", "Rona Munro"], "title": "The lost kings of Scotland"},{"date": "2014-09-30T17:04:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "If you thought some key social policy aspirations in the Scottish government\u2019s ambitious independence white paper were shelved after last month\u2019s referendum perhaps it\u2019s time to think again.Whatever the outcome of talks designed to give Scotland fuller self-government within the UK \u2013 and the three main Westminster parties promised the earth to secure a no vote \u2013 Holyrood will shortly begin the process of assuming some taxation powers under legislation approved by Westminster in 2012.A new body, Revenue Scotland, will be created next year to oversee a Scottish rate of income tax from 2016 \u2013 for some a modest, but nonetheless significant step towards fuller fiscal autonomy.Under this deal, the Scottish government will control 10% of income tax revenue, worth around \u00a35bn \u2013 giving it the power to raise tax above this level to fund ambitious social care programmes outlined in last year\u2019s white paper.It made clear an independent Scotland would not be required \u201cto raise the general rate of taxation to fund existing levels of spending\u201d. But how, you might ask, could the country fund, say, one key plan for \u201ctransformational changes in childcare\u201d from the age of one \u2013 creating an estimated 35,000 jobs \u2013 without raising spending?One leading Scottish finance expert is in no doubt that Holyrood \u2013 if it has the political will \u2013 will soon have the ability to begin an ambitious social care programme, moving towards a Nordic model lauded in that white paper.The Scottish government\u2019s cabinet secretary for finance, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney, says cautiously that the administration will have to decide towards the end of next year about what rate of income tax it should recommend to Holyrood.\u201cNo decisions have yet been taken about setting the rate \u2013 at 10p, above or below that level,\u201d his department added. \u201cClearly these will be major decisions.\u201d Too right.Of course, much will depend on the outcome of a fast-track commission, under the businessman Lord Smith of Kelvin, tasked with overseeing the process of greater devolution in line with the promises made by the three main Westminster party leaders. Agreement is needed by the end of November so that the draft bill can be published by 25 January, Burns night.The Tories, for instance, want all tax to be transferred; Labour, while favouring the transfer of some welfare functions, such as attendance allowance and housing benefit, has been more cautious \u2013 although the former prime minister Gordon Brown promised Scots they would be rewarded with a \u201cmodern form of Scottish home rule\u201d if they remained in the union.For his part, Swinney \u2013 a member of Lord Smith\u2019s commission \u2013 notes that the three main parties vowed to deliver substantial further devolution that included a \u201csignificant transfer of taxation and welfare powers\u201d.The ideological divide between Labour and the SNP in the UK \u2013 though, not necessarily, with a semi-detached Scottish Labour \u2013 appears wide. Swinney, for instance, is at odds with the continued austerity favoured by the shadow chancellor, Ed Balls \u2013 preferring a fiscal stimulus to help revive the economy.Viewed from the outside, it\u2019s hard yet to see an agreement in the Smith commission that will satisfy the SNP government \u2013 although, to be fair, discussions have barely begun. But, assuming that some welfare and more taxation powers will be devolved to Holyrood, supplementing those already agreed for 2016, the implications for England will be profound.How long, for instance, will English councils be prepared to operate in the vice of an ever-tightening funding settlement \u2013 they\u2019ve already made savings of \u00a310bn in this parliament \u2013 when Scots are granted a degree of fiscal independence while still enjoying a more generous Whitehall funding settlement?On the back of the referendum, Scotland is right to press Westminster to honour pledges made in the heat of last month\u2019s campaign. But next year, England, the ultimate centralised state, deserves some reciprocity.", "tags": ["Local government", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Society"], "title": "The taxing questions facing Scotland and England"},{"date": "2014-09-30T09:07:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Should the rest of us just move to Scotland? The wild wooing of the referendum campaign has done its work and it\u2019s hard to shake the idea everything is better north of the border \u2013 no university fees, no prescription charges, politically engaged young people and now, the historic and groundbreaking prospect that Holyrood\u2019s three main political parties will all be led by women.Nicola Sturgeon, who is expected to succeed first minister Alex Salmond this week, will become Scotland\u2019s first female leader, joining Conservative Ruth Davidson and Labour\u2019s Johann Lamont in a triumphant triumvirate of women in the country\u2019s most powerful political positions. It\u2019s an unprecedented situation in the UK and a stark comparison to our three Oxbridge-educated, career politicians with privileged backgrounds, born just a few years apart. Any steps to change that are often faced by howls of protest \u2013 the last-minute cabinet reshuffle, for instance, was dubbed the Night of the Long Wives \u2013 despite just five of 22 cabinet members being women. And yet, without any fanfare, Scotland lines up three state-educated women, aged between 35 and 57, who have worked in journalism and the Territorial Army (Davidson), teaching (Lamont) and the law (Sturgeon).\u201cWhen I became leader, I got so many emails,\u201d Davidson tells me. \u201cMainly from gay, male, teenagers who said, \u2018I\u2019m interested in politics, but thought I could never get on because I am gay.\u2019 It never struck me before that it mattered who the leader was to people who weren\u2019t in your party, but \u2026 it does.\u201d Sturgeon agrees \u2013 Scotland\u2019s feminist moment isn\u2019t simply symbolic: \u201cIt sends a powerful signal about equality, and the cracking of the glass ceiling.\u201d Her party is now the third biggest in the UK \u2013 ahead of the Liberal Democrats. But apart from the refreshing change of seeing three women in charge, will the testosterone-fuelled culture that spawned the so-called Punch and Judy politics be reined in? Will the pay gap disappear, childcare be prioritised and domestic violence convictions soar?Nan Sloane, from Counting Women In, says she is \u201ccautiously excited\u201d as it\u2019s \u201ceasy to make assumptions about how women in leadership roles behave, and then offload on to them the responsibility for cultural change\u201d. Men, she says, are still needed on board to usher in societal change.It\u2019s a point backed up by Susan Stewart from Women for Independence, a grassroots campaigning group, who says, \u201cMany of us hoped that the 1999 intake of female MSPs would lead to a more consensual politics, but that didn\u2019t happen.\u201d Notionally, the idea of three women facing each other down at first minister\u2019s questions could herald that change. Sloane, however, believes that behind the scenes, these three women may be more willing to listen to each other. Lamont herself admits, \u201cPeople think that politicians shouting at each other is not about them,\u201d and while Davidson believes more could be done to \u201clower the temperature\u201d of parliamentary debates, Sturgeon cannily says: \u201cIf I am elected, there may be an opportunity to change the tone for the better.\u201dIt makes sense that increased gender balance in politics does correlate with stronger outcomes for gender equality, yet Davidson thinks that one more woman is unlikely to mean childcare, the pay gap and violence against women will radically change: \u201cAlex Salmond has not been stopping those discussions from happening because he is a man \u2013 there are many accusations I could throw at the first minister, but that\u2019s not one of them.\u201dWhether the consensus will be changed by stealth or speed, Sloane points out that \u201ctoo often, women have been told these are marginal, or a distraction to the real issue \u2013 whether that is independence or selection\u201d. The hope is \u201cwomen leaders will no longer allow these to be pushed aside\u201d.Of course not everyone judges female politicians solely on their work \u2013 their appearance and clothes are often under just as much scrutiny, even in 2014. At the Labour conference this year, a story on the equalities minister was headlined, \u201cGlorious Gloria tells it in black and white\u201d, referring to her monochrome dress rather than her speech, while the Daily Mail\u2019s \u201cDowning St catwalk\u201d dominated their coverage of the last reshuffle. \u201cThe previous female Scottish Labour leader, Wendy Alexander, had a terrible time for apparently wearing low-cut tops \u2013 it was nonsense,\u201d says Davidson. \u201cIf there were more female journalists, the media pack [wouldn\u2019t] have focused on that.\u201d And such reporting is unlikely to change, says a despondent Stewart: \u201cWill the papers get bored of [talking about their looks]? I won\u2019t hold my breath.\u201dAs for heralding a new form of politics, Sloane says women are often elected during crises for the party in opposition to bring in change, as Davidson and Lamont were. After the financial crises in Iceland, for instance, women leaders replaced men in a bid to create a new, clean politics. Yet today, those female politicians are no longer in charge of their parties. While the Scottish parliament is doing better than Westminster for gender parity \u2013 36% of MSPs are women \u2013 Sturgeon is cautious. It \u201cdoesn\u2019t mean the battle for equality has been won. In 1999, when the parliament started, we had one of the best proportions of female representation of any legislator in the world \u2013 we were third \u2013 and that has slipped back. So leadership and visible role models are important, but not of themselves enough.\u201dWhich is why, says Stewart, Women for Independence will be calling for 50/50 representation of women and men at Holyrood, and why, last Sunday, a cross-party group of MSPs from Labour, SNP, Greens and Liberal Democrats called for legal quotas for Holyrood, local government and public bodies in Scotland.Yet such parity is important, not to tick boxes, but to make better policies, says Sloane. \u201cThere is evidence that mixed groups make better decisions overall, which is why you have huge efforts from multinationals to recruit more women into high roles.\u201dMoving to Scotland in the hope of a more equal society, then, may be premature, but there is sure-fire progress dismissing claims \u2013 such as those made by MP Austin Mitchell \u2013 that female politicians are not \u201ctough\u201d enough. \u201cAustin Mitchell,\u201d says Davidson cheerily, \u201cis a dinosaur. I wish him well in his retirement \u2013 and you can quote me on that.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Women in politics", "Gender", "Women", "UK news", "Life and style", "Feminism"], "title": "Is post-referendum Scotland a feminist paradise?"},{"date": "2014-09-24T11:06:07Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Less than 24 hours after Scotland headed to the polls, the Guardian newsroom gathered to discuss the results of the Scottish independence referendum. In a talk chaired by Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger, the audience and the journalists explored what the no vote meant for the future of the UK.Fresh after the fast shift of the debate from Scotland to England when the no vote was confirmed, the panel started with Westminster\u2019s reaction.\u201cIt was very interesting how fast David Cameron went back to business as usual, outside Downing Street,\u201d said Polly Toynbee. \u201cThis is visceral, blood politics in the run up to the next British election. \u2018I won\u2019t betray them\u2019 he said, but the promises are not all that clear when you look at them carefully.\u201d\u201cEngland needs regional government,\u201d Deborah Orr said. \u201cWe have got two houses at Westminster, one of which is unelected, one of them just needs to be dismantled and devolved out to the regions. Not so there are more politicians, but so we in the electorate are voting for politicians who are living amongst us, as well as in London.\u201dPhillip Inman is the Guardian\u2019s economics correspondent. \u201cHaving been around Europe and speaking to people, you see that people believe that their politicians will be throwing away their savings for some kind of nebulous promise of growth in the future,\u201d he said. \u201cI disagree with Deborah; I think politicians absolutely get it. They know their constituents are very conservative with a small c. At the next general election the majority of voters will be over 55 and they\u2019re not really going to care about young voters have to say.\u201dAlan Rusbridger asked the audience if they could\u2019ve, who would have voted yes or no. The majority in the room said they would have voted no.Guardian data journalist James Ball spoke about motivations driving the no vote, in a referendum where there was no exit poll. \u201cPeople have voted with their wallets, in their economic interests,\u201d he said. \u201cThere was only an affect of somewhere being a big SNP area if you controlled for deprivation, income, unemployment. If you did that, SNP areas were a little bit more likely to turn to yes \u2013 but not much. So people looked at the information and made fairly individual decisions but that didn\u2019t really base it off an idea or ideology. Maybe three or four years ago when the economy was worse, it would have gone differently.\u201dJames also addressed the high reported turnout among 16 and 17 year olds, who had been allowed to vote for the first time - based on a count that may have been misleading. \u201cYou might have heard a lot people talking about how 16 and 17 year olds really turned out and really voted for yes,\u201d he said, \u201cbut that was based on Lord Ashcroft doing a poll which talked to fourteen 16- and 17-year olds,\u201d he said.The discussion moved on to the promises made by Westminster to give Scotland more powers, as well as the prospect of only English MPs voting on English laws.An audience member suggested that the House of Lords should be moved to another city or region, or that it could be mobile. Polly said big changes would need to be made to the House of Lords for the new system to be representative of England and Scotland. \u201cHow can you have legislation that is passed by this quite peculiar breed of English-only MPS but then the entire House of Lords \u2013 some of them might be Scots- get to vote on it too? That makes no sense of all,\u201d she said. \u201cWhen you think about devolution, you begin to think about that second chamber for a different use.\u201d\u201cWe can\u2019t just carve up Britain \u2013 we need areas to come forward and say: \u2018We want to be a region\u2019, but be viable. They need to be small enough for constituents to feel a sense of identity and big enough,\u201d she said.Originally from Yorkshire, James spoke about the feeling there. \u201cYorkshire doesn\u2019t have its own media, its own political representation, it is barely covered by the media,\u201d he said. \u201cIts bigger than Wales, much richer than Wales and as big as Scotland. And it is nonexistent, in terms of national awareness. There a lot of places in the UK like that.\u201d\u201cBut would Leeds and Bradford and Sheffield want to ball their strong individual identities under one power, ruling from somewhere else?\u201d asked Deborah.James acknowledged there were many benefits in being a union, as well as risks in regionalising Britain. \u201cI don\u2019t know how we would get that conversation to work,\u201d he said. \u201cI don\u2019t know if we could avoid becoming this inchoate, greedy thing. There is more there than the romance of history: we can use the union to do some really conquering, bloody good things.\u201dGuardian reporter Hugh Muir was in the crowd and spoke about the potential for future change \u2013 as long as the public remained engaged.One audience member said that Scotland had a disruptive catalyst and that the prospect of leaving forced people to participate. The panel talked about John Harris\u2019 series of videos on the referendum, which showed a high level of political engagement in homes and on streets. The Scottish author Irvine Welsh\u2019s piece on Scotland\u2019s \u201cglorious failure\u201d also argued that the Scots had reinvigorated democracy for all the UK. But Phillip said that he thought English apathy was still high.\u201cSpeaking to charity workers, even when you\u2019ve got money and you\u2019ve got hope and you bring things into areas with poverty, still people are passive,\u201d he said. \u201cThey have nothing \u2013 they will stay inside and watch DVD boxsets and won\u2019t go to a townhall meeting. That\u2019s not everywhere, but they report in general, England have become quite pacified and welfarised.\u201dDeborah disagreed that the English would necessarily remain apathetic. \u201cIn Scotland, people stopped nursing their beers and went to their town meetings, so it can be built,\u201d she said. \u201cWhat a terrific thing; that must be held on to.\u201dOne audience member said he felt that the dominance of London ruins life for ordinary Londoners. James agreed. \u201cWhy should England get this awful shortchange deal where you get the crumbs on the table of the bits of devolution that the other place have chosen? You don\u2019t get a second parliament, you get more bloody London. We\u2019re sick of London. England is not happy with London for right or wrong. Shouldn\u2019t it be a different town or institution that the English people get a say?\u201cLondon does already have some devolved powers and its own government,\u201d Deborah said, \u201cso should it be English votes for English people \u2013 but only outside London? London get two votes like the Scots do.\u201dPhillip spoke about the recent Swedish elections, where, following European trends, the far right party skyrocketed to 12.9% of the vote. \u201cEvery country is trying to find ways to maintain their income. We have this intergenerational shift and we have to be very aware of the young people. We\u2019ve seen in Scotland where a lot of young people got involved and I\u2019d love to see the same in England but I am quite gloomy at our ability to energise them.\u201dThe debate concluded with a move to the bar, not before the Guardian\u2019s deputy editor Paul Johnson revealed the cover of the Saturday newspaper to the audience ahead of print, complete with an exclusive referendum poem: September 2014, by poet laureate Carol Anne Duffy.Are you on Twitter and attending a Guardian Live event? Be sure to tweet the hashtag #GuardianEvent when you go and let us know what you think!Are you interested in Guardian Live events? See the current listings.", "tags": ["Membership", "Scotland", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "UK news", "Alan Rusbridger"], "title": "Guardian Live: Scotland Decides \u2013 as it happened"},{"date": "2014-09-21T19:36:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "An attempt by David Cameron to outflank Labour on a new constitutional settlement for the UK ran into trouble on Sunday night when a senior Liberal Democrat cabinet minister said that the plans for devolution in England should not proceed without attempting a cross-party consensus.As Downing Street was forced to issue an unequivocal \"no ifs, no buts\" declaration that the prime minister would deliver further powers to the Scottish parliament, Danny Alexander, chief secretary to the Treasury, criticised the Conservatives' handling of the aftermath of last week's referendum north of the border.\"It is deeply frustrating that briefings over the last 48 hours have distracted from the crystal-clear commitment of all parties to deliver the change Scotland voted for last week,\" Alexander told the Guardian. He is likely to sit on a cabinet committee overseeing devolution.An 11th-hour vow by the three Westminster leaders last week, promising more devolution if Scotland rejected independence, has been in disarray after Cameron appeared to attach new conditions. The prime minister said on Friday that negotiations on only English MPs voting on English laws \"must take place in tandem with, and at the same pace, as the settlement for Scotland\".Fears that the Tories were planning to renege on the pledge were fuelled when the Scottish-born Conservative chief whip, Michael Gove, said on Saturday that it would be \"impossible\" to devolve further powers to Scotland without addressing the position of Scottish MPs at Westminster.No 10 was forced to clarify Gove's remarks, saying the prime minister was committed to the timetable agreed by the three main UK party leaders to hand greater powers over tax and welfare to the Scottish parliament. A government source said: \"There was an unambiguous commitment by the party leaders to deliver more devolution to Scotland on a clear timetable. That is not conditional on anything else. No ifs, no buts \u2013 that will occur.\"Government sources stressed that the two proposals \u2013 further devolution to Scotland and changing the status of Scottish MPs at Westminster \u2013 should be considered in parallel and at the same time. But the sources said that progress in one area would not depend on the other.The prime minister will host a summit at Chequers tomorrow with leading figures on the Tory right, such as the Eurosceptic senior backbencher Bernard Jenkin, to examine ways in which to restrict votes on English-only matters to MPs south of the border.Alexander spoke out after Alex Salmond and Alistair Darling, who led the opposing camps in the referendum, challenged the prime minister over his decision to link further devolution to Edinburgh to new restrictions on the voting rights of Scottish MPs.Alexander said that the proposals for England should be agreed with Labour. He told the Guardian: \"It has always been the case that the Scottish process must be independent of any other political discussions and must be dealt with according to the timetable we set out. For wider constitutional changes it would be preferable to have all-party consensus.\"The Lib Dem call for consensus means that there is unlikely to be agreement on the English element of the package by the time of the election. The Tories are making clear that, in such circumstances, they would include plans to limit Scottish MPs' voting rights in their general election manifesto. They would also attack Labour and the Lib Dems for failing to protect the interests of English voters.But Labour and the Lib Dems are likely to find common cause over the need for caution in addressing the status of Scottish MPs at Westminster. They say that, unlike the Scottish constitutional question that has dominated politics north of the border for four decades, there has been little debate on England-only matters.While Cameron has been urged to include measures on English votes for English laws, Labour leader Ed Miliband is also coming under pressure from some of his northern MPs. Some Labour MPs, led by the former cabinet minister John Denham, who is holding a crisis meeting of MPs at the Labour conference today, fear that the leadership has not grasped the significance of the English question. One Labour MP in the north said: \"Do I think Ed gets it? No. Do I think his Primrose Hill luvvie set get it? No, I don't.\"Salmond said earlier that those who voted no in the referendum would feel they had been \"misled\", \"gulled\" and \"tricked\" by Downing Street. Darling insisted that there could be no link between further powers for Holyrood and limiting Scottish MPs' voting rights at Westminster. The leader of the Better Together campaign told the Andrew Marr Show: \"The agreement reached by the three parties, as far as I am concerned, is non-negotiable. It was promised, it has got to be delivered. Anyone who welches on that will pay a very heavy price for years to come. It is simply non-negotiable.\"The proposal to devolve further powers to Holyrood is to be overseen by Lord Smith of Kelvin, a crossbench peer who will publish draft clauses for a parliamentary bill in January to be enacted after next year's election. The plans to address the West Lothian question, the anomaly whereby Scottish MPs can vote on English-only matters but English MPs have no say on devolved matters in Scotland, will be addressed by a cabinet committee. This will be chaired by William Hague, the leader of the Commons.The two parties are interested in the proposals by Sir William McKay, the former clerk of the House of Commons, that only English MPs should sit on the committee stage of a parliamentary bill that related just to England. Such legislation could then only be passed through a double majority voting system, achieving support of the majority of English MPs and the majority of the Commons as a whole.Downing Street received a boost when McKay said his reforms might have to be changed in light of the outcome of the referendum. He told The World This Weekend on BBC Radio 4: \"You can't lower any of our solutions, immediately and without amendment, into the present situation. They will have to be tweaked \u2013 a fairly hefty tweak, more a kick than a tweak.\"", "tags": ["Constitutional reform", "Devolution", "Scottish independence", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Danny Alexander", "Liberal Democrats", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Cameron faces pressure to seal Scotland deal"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-12-29T22:57:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n10.56pm GMT\n22:56\n\nUpdated\nat 10.57pm GMT\n\n\n10.06pm GMT\n22:06\n\nAfter chairing a meeting of the Whitehall Cobra contingencies committee in London, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said there would be a review of the \u201cprocedures and protocols\u201d adopted by NHS workers and other government staff working in Sierra Leone.We are reviewing our procedures and protocols for the other NHS workers who are working in Sierra Leone alongside colleagues from the Department for International Development and the Foreign Office.They are doing a very, very brave job, under very challenging circumstances. We want to make absolutely sure that we are doing everything we can to keep them safe.Hunt also told the BBC that the authorities were in the process of tracing all the passengers on the flights between Casablanca and London and London and Glasgow.The clinical advice is that the risk to other passengers was very low, he added.\n\n9.54pm GMT\n21:54\n\nSave the Children has confirmed that the woman being treated for ebola in Glasgow is an NHS healthworker who was working for the charity.Michael von Bertele, Save the Children Humanitarian Director, said:We can confirm that an NHS healthworker working with Save the Children at the Ebola Treatment Centre at Kerry Town, Sierra Leone, has tested positive for Ebola.Our thoughts are with the individual, their family and colleagues at this difficult time. We wish them a speedy recovery.Save the Children is working closely with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Public Health England to look into the circumstances surrounding the case.\n\n9.51pm GMT\n21:51\n\nBy coincidence earlier this evening, we published the fourth report for the Guardian by Martin Deahl, a consultant psychiatrist from Shropshire who is working in Sierra Leone.From his placement with the international aid agency Goal at their Ebola treatment centre in Port Loko, he reflects on the highs and lows of the \u2018most surreal and extraordinary\u2019 Christmas of his life:Late on Christmas Eve we got the lab-test result for Gabriel, one of the patients on the confirmed ward. He collapsed two weeks ago just as the UK\u2019s international development secretary, Justine Greening, was arriving at the Goal Ebola Treatment Centre (ETC) for a visit. I had helped him to a chair and unwittingly became an Ebola contact in the process. It\u2019s easy to forget that it\u2019s not just the red zone that\u2019s dangerous: Ebola is everywhere.\n\n9.37pm GMT\n21:37\n\nBritish Airways has said that the airline is working closely with health authorities in England and Scotland and will offer assistance with any information they require. A spokesman said: Customers who flew from London Heathrow to Glasgow on BA1478 which departed at 2100 on Sunday December 28 and have concerns should contact the special number 08000 858531 set up by the Scottish Government.The safety and security of our customers and crew is always our top priority and the risk to people on board that individual flight is extremely low.[ The patient\u2019s leg between Sierra Leone and Casablanca was flown with Royal Air Maroc]Updated\nat 10.44pm GMT\n\n\n9.30pm GMT\n21:30\n\nBritish health authorities have confirmed the details of the flights on which the patient was travelling (via Casablanca, Heathrow and Glasgow):UK #Ebola case: Patient left Sierra Leone on 28 Dec, flights: AT596 Freetown-Casablanca, AT0800 Casablanca-London, BA1478 Heathrow-Glasgow\n\n8.58pm GMT\n20:58\n\nWhile we\u2019ve been focusing for the last while on events here in the UK, the real crisis is still very much in West Africa, where the virus has caused more than 7,800 deaths.Based on a two month investigation, the New York Times has just published a report on what it says was a fleeting moment last Spring to bring the epidemic under control, and which it says was lost.After more than 20,000 cases and 7,800 deaths, it can be hard to recall that there was a moment in the spring when the longest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in history might have been stopped.But without a robust and coordinated response, an invisible epidemic was allowed to thrive alongside the one assumed to be contained.Although conditions were ideal for the virus to go underground, some of the world\u2019s most experienced Ebola fighters convinced themselves that the sharp decline in newly reported cases in April and May was real.The NY Times investigation reports that the World Health Organisation and the Guinean health ministry documented in March that a handful of people had recently died or been sick with Ebola-like symptoms across the border in Sierra Leone.However, the information about two of those possible infections reportedly never reached senior health officials and the team investigating suspected cases in Sierra Leone.Updated\nat 9.01pm GMT\n\n\n8.48pm GMT\n20:48\n\nThe Department of Health tweets this public health message in a bid to alleviate fears:To catch #Ebola you have to come into contact with someone\u2019s bodily fluids pic.twitter.com/XzSxQGYGWIPublic Health England has further advisory notes on Ebola here, including advice for humanitarian workers and for health workers in NHS hospitals, community care and for family and friends of staff who are working in environments where they may come into contact with Ebola. Updated\nat 8.49pm GMT\n\n\n8.42pm GMT\n20:42\n\nA confirmed Ebola case among one of the first healthcare workers to leave the UK for Sierra Leone is a major blow to the health authorities who have been trying to quieten fears about any possible impact here while ramping up the fight in west Africa, according to the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley.In an analysis piece which you can read in full here, she adds that huge efforts were made to try to ensure that none of the hundreds of NHS workers who volunteered to make the trip would return with the virus. It took several months before the final decisions were made on which volunteers would be sent. They were given psychological tests and intensive training; the first batch were trained for nine days, much of it in a simulated treatment centre at the sort of high temperatures to be expected in Sierra Leone.While it\u2019s not surprising that a healthcare worker from the UK has been infected, the unfortunate thing is that it has happened so soon, she adds:It would be a tragedy if this incident stops more volunteers being sent or if it starts another wave of Ebola panic in the UK. This virus would not easily be passed on in this country.The healthcare worker who has fallen ill must have been sufficiently well to pass the many temperature checks on the route home, first at Freetown airport, then in Casablanca which has a full body heat scanner and then at Heathrow airport, where Public Health England\u2019s nurses take you through a questionnaire and yet another temperature check. Updated\nat 10.40pm GMT\n\n\n8.37pm GMT\n20:37\n\nA spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has said it was not yet clear when the patient would be transferred to London from Glasgow. He said:The Royal Free London can confirm that it is expecting to receive a patient who has tested positive for Ebola.The patient will be treated in the high level isolation unit (HLIU). The unit is run by a dedicated team of doctors and laboratory staff and access is restricted to specially trained medical staff. A specially designed tent is set up around the patient\u2019s bed so the infection can be contained while they are treated. \n\n8.28pm GMT\n20:28\n\nNow is probably a good time to re-read this myth busting piece by the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley. Some key points:How is Ebola spread?The Ebola virus is transmitted in the bodily fluids of people who are seriously ill, who are likely to be vomiting, bleeding or have diarrhoea. Blood, faeces and vomit are the most infectious fluids, and in late stages of the disease even tiny amounts can carry high loads of virus. But a nurse who got a patient\u2019s blood on their hands could wash it off with soap and water without any ill-effects. He or she would become ill only if they had a cut or abrasion on their hand or touched their mouth, eyes or nose, which would allow the virus to pass into their bodily fluids.What are the symptoms?It can take two to 21 days for symptoms to show, although usually it is five to seven days. Typically, the first signs are a fever involving a headache, joint and muscle pain, sore throat and severe muscle weakness. Many of those symptoms are similar to flu, so Ebola is not immediately obvious, though it should be suspected in anyone who has been in west Africa recently. After that come diarrhoea, vomiting, a rash and stomach pain. The kidneys and liver stop working properly. Patients may bleed internally and also from the ears, nose, eyes and mouth.Updated\nat 8.30pm GMT\n\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nSome reaction now from the Prme Minister, David Cameron, via Twitter:PM and Scotland\u2019s First Minister agree to ensure everything possible will be done to support #Ebola patient and protect public health.\n\n8.20pm GMT\n20:20\n\nSo what happens now in terms of the timetable for treating the nurse diagnosed in Glasgow? It\u2019s now expected that they will be transferred to London tomorrow morning rather than tonight.When they get there, it\u2019s likely that infectious disease consultants are likely to consider the option of giving the nurse some of the plasma donated by Will Pooley, the British nurse who survived Ebola and subsequently returned to work in Sierra Leone in October.My colleague Lisa O\u2019Carroll, who has reported from Sierra Leone, adds:Pooley banked 1.2 litres of plasma in a lab in Birmingham, consenting it to be used on a patient/and or for research for \u201cconvalescent therapy serum\u201d. However his plasma will only be relevant if the two nurses blood type matches. Chance of nurse in Glasgow's survival much higher than Africa where Ebola has killed more than 350 health workers.Updated\nat 8.34pm GMT\n\n\n8.15pm GMT\n20:15\n\nDr Sarah Wollaston, Conservative MP and Chair of the House of Commons Health Select Committee, has said that a case like this had been expected and that the risk to the public from returning health workers is \u201ceffectively zero\u201d.The real danger is if we do not continue to tackle the disease in West Africa, she told BBC News. The real danger would be if the disease was to \u201cget out of control\u201d in west Africa.As Will Pooley, the British ebola survivor put it in his alternative Christmas message for Channel 4, ebola is \u201ca global problem and it will take the world to fix it\u201d.Updated\nat 11.13pm GMT\n\n\n8.13pm GMT\n20:13\n\nThe consistent theme of commentary coming through now from health experts is that that the public should be aware that Ebola is a disease which is very difficult to transmit.Prof Nigel Brown, President of the Society for General Microbiology, saidIf a person is symptomless they are unable to infect anyone else. Public health officials have fully prepared for an Ebola case being imported into the UK and are ready to respond quickly and efficiently. We should be proud of the British healthcare workers and microbiologists who have volunteered to fight this disease in West Africa.Prof Tom Solomon, Director of Liverpool\u2019s Institute of Infection and Global Health, said:From as early as July, we predicted that the UK was it risk of importing a case of Ebola. Despite restrictions in airline routes, and screening at airports, we thought we were likely to see a case before the end of the year. This has now happened.Because this was a health care worker, who knew what to look out for, and what to do once they felt unwell, the risks to the general public are minimal. It is important to remember that the only people who get Ebola are those who have been caring for someone who had Ebola, because the virus is passed on infected bodily fluids.Those comments were provided via the Science Media Centre.\n\n8.06pm GMT\n20:06\n\nThe flight from Heathrow to Glasgow, along with 71 passengers and crew, was a British Airways flight BA 1478, the Guardian\u2019s Libby Brooks reports from Glasgow.The flight taken from Casablanca was via Moroccan airlines. The flight number is not yet known but Public Health England will be contacting those passengers.Libby also files this from the Glasgow press conference in the last hour:Dr Alisdair MacConacchie, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Consultant in Infectious Diseases, who has been treating the patient, said that the patient had identified themselves as having a fever in the early hours of this morning.She was then transferred to the Brownlee Centre using a specialist ambulance service and admitted to be managed in an isolation facility. She had no contact with other parts of the the NHS or any accident and emergency facility. MacConacchie described the patient\u2019s condition as \u201cquite stable and not showing any great clinical concern at the minute\u201d. Asked about the patient\u2019s prospects, he said that being clinically stable at this stage \u201cshould translate into a good prognosis\u201d.Updated\nat 8.25pm GMT\n", "tags": ["Scotland", "Health policy", "Health", "UK news", "World news", "Ebola", "Glasgow"], "title": "Ebola case confirmed in Scotland"},{"date": "2014-12-29T22:57:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n10.56pm GMT\n22:56\n\nUpdated\nat 10.57pm GMT\n\n\n10.06pm GMT\n22:06\n\nAfter chairing a meeting of the Whitehall Cobra contingencies committee in London, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said there would be a review of the \u201cprocedures and protocols\u201d adopted by NHS workers and other government staff working in Sierra Leone.We are reviewing our procedures and protocols for the other NHS workers who are working in Sierra Leone alongside colleagues from the Department for International Development and the Foreign Office.They are doing a very, very brave job, under very challenging circumstances. We want to make absolutely sure that we are doing everything we can to keep them safe.Hunt also told the BBC that the authorities were in the process of tracing all the passengers on the flights between Casablanca and London and London and Glasgow.The clinical advice is that the risk to other passengers was very low, he added.\n\n9.54pm GMT\n21:54\n\nSave the Children has confirmed that the woman being treated for ebola in Glasgow is an NHS healthworker who was working for the charity.Michael von Bertele, Save the Children Humanitarian Director, said:We can confirm that an NHS healthworker working with Save the Children at the Ebola Treatment Centre at Kerry Town, Sierra Leone, has tested positive for Ebola.Our thoughts are with the individual, their family and colleagues at this difficult time. We wish them a speedy recovery.Save the Children is working closely with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Public Health England to look into the circumstances surrounding the case.\n\n9.51pm GMT\n21:51\n\nBy coincidence earlier this evening, we published the fourth report for the Guardian by Martin Deahl, a consultant psychiatrist from Shropshire who is working in Sierra Leone.From his placement with the international aid agency Goal at their Ebola treatment centre in Port Loko, he reflects on the highs and lows of the \u2018most surreal and extraordinary\u2019 Christmas of his life:Late on Christmas Eve we got the lab-test result for Gabriel, one of the patients on the confirmed ward. He collapsed two weeks ago just as the UK\u2019s international development secretary, Justine Greening, was arriving at the Goal Ebola Treatment Centre (ETC) for a visit. I had helped him to a chair and unwittingly became an Ebola contact in the process. It\u2019s easy to forget that it\u2019s not just the red zone that\u2019s dangerous: Ebola is everywhere.\n\n9.37pm GMT\n21:37\n\nBritish Airways has said that the airline is working closely with health authorities in England and Scotland and will offer assistance with any information they require. A spokesman said: Customers who flew from London Heathrow to Glasgow on BA1478 which departed at 2100 on Sunday December 28 and have concerns should contact the special number 08000 858531 set up by the Scottish Government.The safety and security of our customers and crew is always our top priority and the risk to people on board that individual flight is extremely low.[ The patient\u2019s leg between Sierra Leone and Casablanca was flown with Royal Air Maroc]Updated\nat 10.44pm GMT\n\n\n9.30pm GMT\n21:30\n\nBritish health authorities have confirmed the details of the flights on which the patient was travelling (via Casablanca, Heathrow and Glasgow):UK #Ebola case: Patient left Sierra Leone on 28 Dec, flights: AT596 Freetown-Casablanca, AT0800 Casablanca-London, BA1478 Heathrow-Glasgow\n\n8.58pm GMT\n20:58\n\nWhile we\u2019ve been focusing for the last while on events here in the UK, the real crisis is still very much in West Africa, where the virus has caused more than 7,800 deaths.Based on a two month investigation, the New York Times has just published a report on what it says was a fleeting moment last Spring to bring the epidemic under control, and which it says was lost.After more than 20,000 cases and 7,800 deaths, it can be hard to recall that there was a moment in the spring when the longest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in history might have been stopped.But without a robust and coordinated response, an invisible epidemic was allowed to thrive alongside the one assumed to be contained.Although conditions were ideal for the virus to go underground, some of the world\u2019s most experienced Ebola fighters convinced themselves that the sharp decline in newly reported cases in April and May was real.The NY Times investigation reports that the World Health Organisation and the Guinean health ministry documented in March that a handful of people had recently died or been sick with Ebola-like symptoms across the border in Sierra Leone.However, the information about two of those possible infections reportedly never reached senior health officials and the team investigating suspected cases in Sierra Leone.Updated\nat 9.01pm GMT\n\n\n8.48pm GMT\n20:48\n\nThe Department of Health tweets this public health message in a bid to alleviate fears:To catch #Ebola you have to come into contact with someone\u2019s bodily fluids pic.twitter.com/XzSxQGYGWIPublic Health England has further advisory notes on Ebola here, including advice for humanitarian workers and for health workers in NHS hospitals, community care and for family and friends of staff who are working in environments where they may come into contact with Ebola. Updated\nat 8.49pm GMT\n\n\n8.42pm GMT\n20:42\n\nA confirmed Ebola case among one of the first healthcare workers to leave the UK for Sierra Leone is a major blow to the health authorities who have been trying to quieten fears about any possible impact here while ramping up the fight in west Africa, according to the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley.In an analysis piece which you can read in full here, she adds that huge efforts were made to try to ensure that none of the hundreds of NHS workers who volunteered to make the trip would return with the virus. It took several months before the final decisions were made on which volunteers would be sent. They were given psychological tests and intensive training; the first batch were trained for nine days, much of it in a simulated treatment centre at the sort of high temperatures to be expected in Sierra Leone.While it\u2019s not surprising that a healthcare worker from the UK has been infected, the unfortunate thing is that it has happened so soon, she adds:It would be a tragedy if this incident stops more volunteers being sent or if it starts another wave of Ebola panic in the UK. This virus would not easily be passed on in this country.The healthcare worker who has fallen ill must have been sufficiently well to pass the many temperature checks on the route home, first at Freetown airport, then in Casablanca which has a full body heat scanner and then at Heathrow airport, where Public Health England\u2019s nurses take you through a questionnaire and yet another temperature check. Updated\nat 10.40pm GMT\n\n\n8.37pm GMT\n20:37\n\nA spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has said it was not yet clear when the patient would be transferred to London from Glasgow. He said:The Royal Free London can confirm that it is expecting to receive a patient who has tested positive for Ebola.The patient will be treated in the high level isolation unit (HLIU). The unit is run by a dedicated team of doctors and laboratory staff and access is restricted to specially trained medical staff. A specially designed tent is set up around the patient\u2019s bed so the infection can be contained while they are treated. \n\n8.28pm GMT\n20:28\n\nNow is probably a good time to re-read this myth busting piece by the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley. Some key points:How is Ebola spread?The Ebola virus is transmitted in the bodily fluids of people who are seriously ill, who are likely to be vomiting, bleeding or have diarrhoea. Blood, faeces and vomit are the most infectious fluids, and in late stages of the disease even tiny amounts can carry high loads of virus. But a nurse who got a patient\u2019s blood on their hands could wash it off with soap and water without any ill-effects. He or she would become ill only if they had a cut or abrasion on their hand or touched their mouth, eyes or nose, which would allow the virus to pass into their bodily fluids.What are the symptoms?It can take two to 21 days for symptoms to show, although usually it is five to seven days. Typically, the first signs are a fever involving a headache, joint and muscle pain, sore throat and severe muscle weakness. Many of those symptoms are similar to flu, so Ebola is not immediately obvious, though it should be suspected in anyone who has been in west Africa recently. After that come diarrhoea, vomiting, a rash and stomach pain. The kidneys and liver stop working properly. Patients may bleed internally and also from the ears, nose, eyes and mouth.Updated\nat 8.30pm GMT\n\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nSome reaction now from the Prme Minister, David Cameron, via Twitter:PM and Scotland\u2019s First Minister agree to ensure everything possible will be done to support #Ebola patient and protect public health.\n\n8.20pm GMT\n20:20\n\nSo what happens now in terms of the timetable for treating the nurse diagnosed in Glasgow? It\u2019s now expected that they will be transferred to London tomorrow morning rather than tonight.When they get there, it\u2019s likely that infectious disease consultants are likely to consider the option of giving the nurse some of the plasma donated by Will Pooley, the British nurse who survived Ebola and subsequently returned to work in Sierra Leone in October.My colleague Lisa O\u2019Carroll, who has reported from Sierra Leone, adds:Pooley banked 1.2 litres of plasma in a lab in Birmingham, consenting it to be used on a patient/and or for research for \u201cconvalescent therapy serum\u201d. However his plasma will only be relevant if the two nurses blood type matches. Chance of nurse in Glasgow's survival much higher than Africa where Ebola has killed more than 350 health workers.Updated\nat 8.34pm GMT\n\n\n8.15pm GMT\n20:15\n\nDr Sarah Wollaston, Conservative MP and Chair of the House of Commons Health Select Committee, has said that a case like this had been expected and that the risk to the public from returning health workers is \u201ceffectively zero\u201d.The real danger is if we do not continue to tackle the disease in West Africa, she told BBC News. The real danger would be if the disease was to \u201cget out of control\u201d in west Africa.As Will Pooley, the British ebola survivor put it in his alternative Christmas message for Channel 4, ebola is \u201ca global problem and it will take the world to fix it\u201d.Updated\nat 11.13pm GMT\n\n\n8.13pm GMT\n20:13\n\nThe consistent theme of commentary coming through now from health experts is that that the public should be aware that Ebola is a disease which is very difficult to transmit.Prof Nigel Brown, President of the Society for General Microbiology, saidIf a person is symptomless they are unable to infect anyone else. Public health officials have fully prepared for an Ebola case being imported into the UK and are ready to respond quickly and efficiently. We should be proud of the British healthcare workers and microbiologists who have volunteered to fight this disease in West Africa.Prof Tom Solomon, Director of Liverpool\u2019s Institute of Infection and Global Health, said:From as early as July, we predicted that the UK was it risk of importing a case of Ebola. Despite restrictions in airline routes, and screening at airports, we thought we were likely to see a case before the end of the year. This has now happened.Because this was a health care worker, who knew what to look out for, and what to do once they felt unwell, the risks to the general public are minimal. It is important to remember that the only people who get Ebola are those who have been caring for someone who had Ebola, because the virus is passed on infected bodily fluids.Those comments were provided via the Science Media Centre.\n\n8.06pm GMT\n20:06\n\nThe flight from Heathrow to Glasgow, along with 71 passengers and crew, was a British Airways flight BA 1478, the Guardian\u2019s Libby Brooks reports from Glasgow.The flight taken from Casablanca was via Moroccan airlines. The flight number is not yet known but Public Health England will be contacting those passengers.Libby also files this from the Glasgow press conference in the last hour:Dr Alisdair MacConacchie, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Consultant in Infectious Diseases, who has been treating the patient, said that the patient had identified themselves as having a fever in the early hours of this morning.She was then transferred to the Brownlee Centre using a specialist ambulance service and admitted to be managed in an isolation facility. She had no contact with other parts of the the NHS or any accident and emergency facility. MacConacchie described the patient\u2019s condition as \u201cquite stable and not showing any great clinical concern at the minute\u201d. Asked about the patient\u2019s prospects, he said that being clinically stable at this stage \u201cshould translate into a good prognosis\u201d.Updated\nat 8.25pm GMT\n", "tags": ["Scotland", "Health policy", "Health", "UK news", "World news", "Ebola", "Glasgow"], "title": "Ebola case confirmed in Scotland"},{"date": "2014-12-19T18:32:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The recent attack on Unite (Editorial, 15 December) ought to be beneath your paper. It made incorrect accusations and in doing so exposed a fundamental lack of understanding of how trade unions function. Unite did not spend \u201cenormous amounts of money\u201d to \u201cthwart\u201d Jim Murphy. The money we spent to support Neil Findlay was used to communicate to Unite members, entirely in keeping with Labour party rules. The decision was in itself taken by Unite members \u2013 the working men and women of our regional committee who opted to back him \u2013 because that is how we operate, as a member-led, decision-making body. Far from being \u201cout of touch\u201d as you suggest, we are duty bound to listen to the day-to-day voice of our members and act upon their wishes.How our individual members cast their vote is up to them, in the privacy of their own homes. They are not the lumpen electorate your writer considers them to be, as can be seen in the votes for the other two candidates. Six in 10 of our members chose to back Neil Findlay because they support his policies. Jim Murphy is now the Scottish Labour leader. Consistent with the values of our movement and the wishes of the electorate, Unite will work alongside him in the hope of winning back disillusioned Labour voters. I urge that the Guardian reflects upon the true nature of this vote and the genuine challenges ahead for Labour in Scotland, and in so doing resists the temptation to indulge what seems to be little more than the anti-union bias of some on its editorial team.Len McCluskeyGeneral secretary, Unite the union\u2022 Your interesting two-part series, Britain on the brink and How the kingdom survived (17-18 December) had an unfortunately misleading subhead: The real story of the Scottish referendum. You explained very well the unity of the establishment in overcoming the threat to its existence but readers might have come away with the impression that it was only the SNP that stood against them. A grass-roots movement of remarkable proportions spread the Yes vote across the country. The Radical Independence Campaign, Hope over Fear, the National Collective, the Common Weal and others built one of the largest anti-austerity movements in Europe. For them it was not a campaign to support nationalism but a burning desire for social change and self-determination. This partly explains why 97% of Scots registered to vote \u2013 the highest level in Scotland or Britain since the introduction of universal suffrage \u2013 and turnout was 85%, compared with 65% at the 2010 general election.And the campaign continues. For example, the post-referendum conference of the Radical Independence Campaign, held in Glasgow last month, attracted more than 7,000 requests for tickets. In the end only half that number could be accommodated but to do so the organisers had to hire extra venues to cater for meetings on an astonishing range of social and political topics. The conference agreed a policy of a social alternative to austerity and privatisation; a green sustainable economy; a modern republic for real democracy; and internationalism based on opposition to Nato and Trident.Murray ArmstrongLondon\u2022 Your account of the referendum campaign exposes the SNP\u2019s obfuscation, now even more successful than ever in pulling the wool over the eyes of so many Scots. Three months on, Alex Salmond has obtained a safe seat to carry him to Westminster, Nicola Sturgeon coasts along promising referendum 2 and neither has yet been called upon to answer their false promises to the needy in Scotland. Horrid cliche, hence perfect for David Cameron and the SNP \u2013 be careful what you wish for.Carolyn KirtonAberdeen", "tags": ["Scotland", "Unite", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Jim Murphy", "Labour", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Unite and the ongoing debate in Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2014-12-29T22:57:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n10.56pm GMT\n22:56\n\nUpdated\nat 10.57pm GMT\n\n\n10.06pm GMT\n22:06\n\nAfter chairing a meeting of the Whitehall Cobra contingencies committee in London, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said there would be a review of the \u201cprocedures and protocols\u201d adopted by NHS workers and other government staff working in Sierra Leone.We are reviewing our procedures and protocols for the other NHS workers who are working in Sierra Leone alongside colleagues from the Department for International Development and the Foreign Office.They are doing a very, very brave job, under very challenging circumstances. We want to make absolutely sure that we are doing everything we can to keep them safe.Hunt also told the BBC that the authorities were in the process of tracing all the passengers on the flights between Casablanca and London and London and Glasgow.The clinical advice is that the risk to other passengers was very low, he added.\n\n9.54pm GMT\n21:54\n\nSave the Children has confirmed that the woman being treated for ebola in Glasgow is an NHS healthworker who was working for the charity.Michael von Bertele, Save the Children Humanitarian Director, said:We can confirm that an NHS healthworker working with Save the Children at the Ebola Treatment Centre at Kerry Town, Sierra Leone, has tested positive for Ebola.Our thoughts are with the individual, their family and colleagues at this difficult time. We wish them a speedy recovery.Save the Children is working closely with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Public Health England to look into the circumstances surrounding the case.\n\n9.51pm GMT\n21:51\n\nBy coincidence earlier this evening, we published the fourth report for the Guardian by Martin Deahl, a consultant psychiatrist from Shropshire who is working in Sierra Leone.From his placement with the international aid agency Goal at their Ebola treatment centre in Port Loko, he reflects on the highs and lows of the \u2018most surreal and extraordinary\u2019 Christmas of his life:Late on Christmas Eve we got the lab-test result for Gabriel, one of the patients on the confirmed ward. He collapsed two weeks ago just as the UK\u2019s international development secretary, Justine Greening, was arriving at the Goal Ebola Treatment Centre (ETC) for a visit. I had helped him to a chair and unwittingly became an Ebola contact in the process. It\u2019s easy to forget that it\u2019s not just the red zone that\u2019s dangerous: Ebola is everywhere.\n\n9.37pm GMT\n21:37\n\nBritish Airways has said that the airline is working closely with health authorities in England and Scotland and will offer assistance with any information they require. A spokesman said: Customers who flew from London Heathrow to Glasgow on BA1478 which departed at 2100 on Sunday December 28 and have concerns should contact the special number 08000 858531 set up by the Scottish Government.The safety and security of our customers and crew is always our top priority and the risk to people on board that individual flight is extremely low.[ The patient\u2019s leg between Sierra Leone and Casablanca was flown with Royal Air Maroc]Updated\nat 10.44pm GMT\n\n\n9.30pm GMT\n21:30\n\nBritish health authorities have confirmed the details of the flights on which the patient was travelling (via Casablanca, Heathrow and Glasgow):UK #Ebola case: Patient left Sierra Leone on 28 Dec, flights: AT596 Freetown-Casablanca, AT0800 Casablanca-London, BA1478 Heathrow-Glasgow\n\n8.58pm GMT\n20:58\n\nWhile we\u2019ve been focusing for the last while on events here in the UK, the real crisis is still very much in West Africa, where the virus has caused more than 7,800 deaths.Based on a two month investigation, the New York Times has just published a report on what it says was a fleeting moment last Spring to bring the epidemic under control, and which it says was lost.After more than 20,000 cases and 7,800 deaths, it can be hard to recall that there was a moment in the spring when the longest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in history might have been stopped.But without a robust and coordinated response, an invisible epidemic was allowed to thrive alongside the one assumed to be contained.Although conditions were ideal for the virus to go underground, some of the world\u2019s most experienced Ebola fighters convinced themselves that the sharp decline in newly reported cases in April and May was real.The NY Times investigation reports that the World Health Organisation and the Guinean health ministry documented in March that a handful of people had recently died or been sick with Ebola-like symptoms across the border in Sierra Leone.However, the information about two of those possible infections reportedly never reached senior health officials and the team investigating suspected cases in Sierra Leone.Updated\nat 9.01pm GMT\n\n\n8.48pm GMT\n20:48\n\nThe Department of Health tweets this public health message in a bid to alleviate fears:To catch #Ebola you have to come into contact with someone\u2019s bodily fluids pic.twitter.com/XzSxQGYGWIPublic Health England has further advisory notes on Ebola here, including advice for humanitarian workers and for health workers in NHS hospitals, community care and for family and friends of staff who are working in environments where they may come into contact with Ebola. Updated\nat 8.49pm GMT\n\n\n8.42pm GMT\n20:42\n\nA confirmed Ebola case among one of the first healthcare workers to leave the UK for Sierra Leone is a major blow to the health authorities who have been trying to quieten fears about any possible impact here while ramping up the fight in west Africa, according to the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley.In an analysis piece which you can read in full here, she adds that huge efforts were made to try to ensure that none of the hundreds of NHS workers who volunteered to make the trip would return with the virus. It took several months before the final decisions were made on which volunteers would be sent. They were given psychological tests and intensive training; the first batch were trained for nine days, much of it in a simulated treatment centre at the sort of high temperatures to be expected in Sierra Leone.While it\u2019s not surprising that a healthcare worker from the UK has been infected, the unfortunate thing is that it has happened so soon, she adds:It would be a tragedy if this incident stops more volunteers being sent or if it starts another wave of Ebola panic in the UK. This virus would not easily be passed on in this country.The healthcare worker who has fallen ill must have been sufficiently well to pass the many temperature checks on the route home, first at Freetown airport, then in Casablanca which has a full body heat scanner and then at Heathrow airport, where Public Health England\u2019s nurses take you through a questionnaire and yet another temperature check. Updated\nat 10.40pm GMT\n\n\n8.37pm GMT\n20:37\n\nA spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has said it was not yet clear when the patient would be transferred to London from Glasgow. He said:The Royal Free London can confirm that it is expecting to receive a patient who has tested positive for Ebola.The patient will be treated in the high level isolation unit (HLIU). The unit is run by a dedicated team of doctors and laboratory staff and access is restricted to specially trained medical staff. A specially designed tent is set up around the patient\u2019s bed so the infection can be contained while they are treated. \n\n8.28pm GMT\n20:28\n\nNow is probably a good time to re-read this myth busting piece by the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley. Some key points:How is Ebola spread?The Ebola virus is transmitted in the bodily fluids of people who are seriously ill, who are likely to be vomiting, bleeding or have diarrhoea. Blood, faeces and vomit are the most infectious fluids, and in late stages of the disease even tiny amounts can carry high loads of virus. But a nurse who got a patient\u2019s blood on their hands could wash it off with soap and water without any ill-effects. He or she would become ill only if they had a cut or abrasion on their hand or touched their mouth, eyes or nose, which would allow the virus to pass into their bodily fluids.What are the symptoms?It can take two to 21 days for symptoms to show, although usually it is five to seven days. Typically, the first signs are a fever involving a headache, joint and muscle pain, sore throat and severe muscle weakness. Many of those symptoms are similar to flu, so Ebola is not immediately obvious, though it should be suspected in anyone who has been in west Africa recently. After that come diarrhoea, vomiting, a rash and stomach pain. The kidneys and liver stop working properly. Patients may bleed internally and also from the ears, nose, eyes and mouth.Updated\nat 8.30pm GMT\n\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nSome reaction now from the Prme Minister, David Cameron, via Twitter:PM and Scotland\u2019s First Minister agree to ensure everything possible will be done to support #Ebola patient and protect public health.\n\n8.20pm GMT\n20:20\n\nSo what happens now in terms of the timetable for treating the nurse diagnosed in Glasgow? It\u2019s now expected that they will be transferred to London tomorrow morning rather than tonight.When they get there, it\u2019s likely that infectious disease consultants are likely to consider the option of giving the nurse some of the plasma donated by Will Pooley, the British nurse who survived Ebola and subsequently returned to work in Sierra Leone in October.My colleague Lisa O\u2019Carroll, who has reported from Sierra Leone, adds:Pooley banked 1.2 litres of plasma in a lab in Birmingham, consenting it to be used on a patient/and or for research for \u201cconvalescent therapy serum\u201d. However his plasma will only be relevant if the two nurses blood type matches. Chance of nurse in Glasgow's survival much higher than Africa where Ebola has killed more than 350 health workers.Updated\nat 8.34pm GMT\n\n\n8.15pm GMT\n20:15\n\nDr Sarah Wollaston, Conservative MP and Chair of the House of Commons Health Select Committee, has said that a case like this had been expected and that the risk to the public from returning health workers is \u201ceffectively zero\u201d.The real danger is if we do not continue to tackle the disease in West Africa, she told BBC News. The real danger would be if the disease was to \u201cget out of control\u201d in west Africa.As Will Pooley, the British ebola survivor put it in his alternative Christmas message for Channel 4, ebola is \u201ca global problem and it will take the world to fix it\u201d.Updated\nat 11.13pm GMT\n\n\n8.13pm GMT\n20:13\n\nThe consistent theme of commentary coming through now from health experts is that that the public should be aware that Ebola is a disease which is very difficult to transmit.Prof Nigel Brown, President of the Society for General Microbiology, saidIf a person is symptomless they are unable to infect anyone else. Public health officials have fully prepared for an Ebola case being imported into the UK and are ready to respond quickly and efficiently. We should be proud of the British healthcare workers and microbiologists who have volunteered to fight this disease in West Africa.Prof Tom Solomon, Director of Liverpool\u2019s Institute of Infection and Global Health, said:From as early as July, we predicted that the UK was it risk of importing a case of Ebola. Despite restrictions in airline routes, and screening at airports, we thought we were likely to see a case before the end of the year. This has now happened.Because this was a health care worker, who knew what to look out for, and what to do once they felt unwell, the risks to the general public are minimal. It is important to remember that the only people who get Ebola are those who have been caring for someone who had Ebola, because the virus is passed on infected bodily fluids.Those comments were provided via the Science Media Centre.\n\n8.06pm GMT\n20:06\n\nThe flight from Heathrow to Glasgow, along with 71 passengers and crew, was a British Airways flight BA 1478, the Guardian\u2019s Libby Brooks reports from Glasgow.The flight taken from Casablanca was via Moroccan airlines. The flight number is not yet known but Public Health England will be contacting those passengers.Libby also files this from the Glasgow press conference in the last hour:Dr Alisdair MacConacchie, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Consultant in Infectious Diseases, who has been treating the patient, said that the patient had identified themselves as having a fever in the early hours of this morning.She was then transferred to the Brownlee Centre using a specialist ambulance service and admitted to be managed in an isolation facility. She had no contact with other parts of the the NHS or any accident and emergency facility. MacConacchie described the patient\u2019s condition as \u201cquite stable and not showing any great clinical concern at the minute\u201d. Asked about the patient\u2019s prospects, he said that being clinically stable at this stage \u201cshould translate into a good prognosis\u201d.Updated\nat 8.25pm GMT\n", "tags": ["Scotland", "Health policy", "Health", "UK news", "World news", "Ebola", "Glasgow"], "title": "Ebola case confirmed in Scotland"},{"date": "2014-12-19T18:32:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The recent attack on Unite (Editorial, 15 December) ought to be beneath your paper. It made incorrect accusations and in doing so exposed a fundamental lack of understanding of how trade unions function. Unite did not spend \u201cenormous amounts of money\u201d to \u201cthwart\u201d Jim Murphy. The money we spent to support Neil Findlay was used to communicate to Unite members, entirely in keeping with Labour party rules. The decision was in itself taken by Unite members \u2013 the working men and women of our regional committee who opted to back him \u2013 because that is how we operate, as a member-led, decision-making body. Far from being \u201cout of touch\u201d as you suggest, we are duty bound to listen to the day-to-day voice of our members and act upon their wishes.How our individual members cast their vote is up to them, in the privacy of their own homes. They are not the lumpen electorate your writer considers them to be, as can be seen in the votes for the other two candidates. Six in 10 of our members chose to back Neil Findlay because they support his policies. Jim Murphy is now the Scottish Labour leader. Consistent with the values of our movement and the wishes of the electorate, Unite will work alongside him in the hope of winning back disillusioned Labour voters. I urge that the Guardian reflects upon the true nature of this vote and the genuine challenges ahead for Labour in Scotland, and in so doing resists the temptation to indulge what seems to be little more than the anti-union bias of some on its editorial team.Len McCluskeyGeneral secretary, Unite the union\u2022 Your interesting two-part series, Britain on the brink and How the kingdom survived (17-18 December) had an unfortunately misleading subhead: The real story of the Scottish referendum. You explained very well the unity of the establishment in overcoming the threat to its existence but readers might have come away with the impression that it was only the SNP that stood against them. A grass-roots movement of remarkable proportions spread the Yes vote across the country. The Radical Independence Campaign, Hope over Fear, the National Collective, the Common Weal and others built one of the largest anti-austerity movements in Europe. For them it was not a campaign to support nationalism but a burning desire for social change and self-determination. This partly explains why 97% of Scots registered to vote \u2013 the highest level in Scotland or Britain since the introduction of universal suffrage \u2013 and turnout was 85%, compared with 65% at the 2010 general election.And the campaign continues. For example, the post-referendum conference of the Radical Independence Campaign, held in Glasgow last month, attracted more than 7,000 requests for tickets. In the end only half that number could be accommodated but to do so the organisers had to hire extra venues to cater for meetings on an astonishing range of social and political topics. The conference agreed a policy of a social alternative to austerity and privatisation; a green sustainable economy; a modern republic for real democracy; and internationalism based on opposition to Nato and Trident.Murray ArmstrongLondon\u2022 Your account of the referendum campaign exposes the SNP\u2019s obfuscation, now even more successful than ever in pulling the wool over the eyes of so many Scots. Three months on, Alex Salmond has obtained a safe seat to carry him to Westminster, Nicola Sturgeon coasts along promising referendum 2 and neither has yet been called upon to answer their false promises to the needy in Scotland. Horrid cliche, hence perfect for David Cameron and the SNP \u2013 be careful what you wish for.Carolyn KirtonAberdeen", "tags": ["Scotland", "Unite", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Jim Murphy", "Labour", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Unite and the ongoing debate in Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2014-12-01T15:42:37Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This weekend saw Changin Scotland at the Ceilidh Place in Ullapool (no, I don\u2019t understand why it\u2019s missing a \u2018g\u2019 either). Now in its twelfth year, this biannual gathering of politics, culture and ideas was predominantly \u2018yes\u2019 (still a thing: more of that later), more lefty than SNP, with a strongly Highland flavour. (Indeed, in his talk on land and social change, Jim Hunter argued that centralised SNP government had not been good for the Highlands and Islands: \u201cfrom a nationalist perspective Scotland is one nation and the idea that parts are unique makes them uncomfortable\u201d.) The gathering was founded by writer and researcher Gerry Hassan, and the MSP, Ceilidh Place owner and all-round renaissance woman Jean Urquhart. Here, she talks about the \u201cidea of the ceilidh\u201d as a place of debate as well as dancing.Another speaker was Madeleine Bunting, who travelled through the Hebrides this summer researching a book on the history of the relationship between England and Scotland. In her own talk she said a fascinating thing: \u201c \u2018Remote\u2019 is a political term\u201d. Here she picks up on the suggestion from constitutional lawyer Adam Tomkins that the experience of the Scottish independence referendum had revealed England (outside of London) to be the worst governed part of the UK, as well as the presentation by Lateral North on Scotland\u2019s future as a northern nation.A few gossipy notes: Adam Tomkins, who was also one of the Conservative representatives on the Smith Commission, told the audience that it was Harriet Harman who vetoed the devolution of abortion; some eyebrows were raised at Makar Liz Lochhead\u2019s very public joining of the SNP; Ross Colquhoun admitted that National Collective had at one point during the referendum campaign sent a yes sign into space (photographic evidence here; no, really). Talking of Smith, land reform expert Andy Wightman thought that giving Holyrood responsibility for the management of the crown estate in Scotland was a recommendation that had been seriously under-played in its significance. Here he explains why.This isn\u2019t a weekend for technocrats, however. At around 130 attendees, many local to the area, it wasn\u2019t the biggest post-referendum event I\u2019ve been to in recent weeks, but it was brimful of ideas. With around half of the audience new to the gathering, much of the discussion focused around how to harness and realign the energy unleashed by the pro-independence movement in this liminal period post-Smith, pre-general election. (It would be a disaster, the Radical Independence Campaign\u2019s Cat Boyd told the audience, to get trapped in a decade long battle between Labour and the SNP.)Lisa MacDonald, a teacher and poet from Ullapool, describes her own first impressions of Changin Scotland and the political awakening that brought her here:One note of caution: for all the heartfelt talk of reaching out to the 55% who voted no, it was still the case that the temperature in the village hall dropped by several degrees when Adam Tomkins was speaking. Certainly, the man is a Tory, but one of the most simpatico you\u2019re likely to stumble across in Scotland these days. \u201cReaching\u201d was an active verb last time I looked. This was one theme of playwright David Greig\u2019s talk. Greig, for my money one of the most subtle observers of indyref behaviour, insisted that it was \u201cincumbent on the people who want the spirit of yes to continue\u201d to create a public realm that doesn\u2019t calcify into yes and no. He also asked the hugely pertinent question: why are we not talking about currency anymore? Greig elaborates on both points below. This gathering also marked the final one to be organised by Hassan and Urquhart. There was some discussion on the final morning of how best to keep the kettle boiling: the Ceilidh Place is still keen to be a venue, and other groups like National Collective might offer their services. In the meantime, if you\u2019re looking for an events organising role before next March, you know where to apply....", "tags": ["Scotland"], "title": "After the Scottish independence referendum: Changin Scotland"},{"date": "2014-12-29T22:57:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n10.56pm GMT\n22:56\n\nUpdated\nat 10.57pm GMT\n\n\n10.06pm GMT\n22:06\n\nAfter chairing a meeting of the Whitehall Cobra contingencies committee in London, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said there would be a review of the \u201cprocedures and protocols\u201d adopted by NHS workers and other government staff working in Sierra Leone.We are reviewing our procedures and protocols for the other NHS workers who are working in Sierra Leone alongside colleagues from the Department for International Development and the Foreign Office.They are doing a very, very brave job, under very challenging circumstances. We want to make absolutely sure that we are doing everything we can to keep them safe.Hunt also told the BBC that the authorities were in the process of tracing all the passengers on the flights between Casablanca and London and London and Glasgow.The clinical advice is that the risk to other passengers was very low, he added.\n\n9.54pm GMT\n21:54\n\nSave the Children has confirmed that the woman being treated for ebola in Glasgow is an NHS healthworker who was working for the charity.Michael von Bertele, Save the Children Humanitarian Director, said:We can confirm that an NHS healthworker working with Save the Children at the Ebola Treatment Centre at Kerry Town, Sierra Leone, has tested positive for Ebola.Our thoughts are with the individual, their family and colleagues at this difficult time. We wish them a speedy recovery.Save the Children is working closely with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Public Health England to look into the circumstances surrounding the case.\n\n9.51pm GMT\n21:51\n\nBy coincidence earlier this evening, we published the fourth report for the Guardian by Martin Deahl, a consultant psychiatrist from Shropshire who is working in Sierra Leone.From his placement with the international aid agency Goal at their Ebola treatment centre in Port Loko, he reflects on the highs and lows of the \u2018most surreal and extraordinary\u2019 Christmas of his life:Late on Christmas Eve we got the lab-test result for Gabriel, one of the patients on the confirmed ward. He collapsed two weeks ago just as the UK\u2019s international development secretary, Justine Greening, was arriving at the Goal Ebola Treatment Centre (ETC) for a visit. I had helped him to a chair and unwittingly became an Ebola contact in the process. It\u2019s easy to forget that it\u2019s not just the red zone that\u2019s dangerous: Ebola is everywhere.\n\n9.37pm GMT\n21:37\n\nBritish Airways has said that the airline is working closely with health authorities in England and Scotland and will offer assistance with any information they require. A spokesman said: Customers who flew from London Heathrow to Glasgow on BA1478 which departed at 2100 on Sunday December 28 and have concerns should contact the special number 08000 858531 set up by the Scottish Government.The safety and security of our customers and crew is always our top priority and the risk to people on board that individual flight is extremely low.[ The patient\u2019s leg between Sierra Leone and Casablanca was flown with Royal Air Maroc]Updated\nat 10.44pm GMT\n\n\n9.30pm GMT\n21:30\n\nBritish health authorities have confirmed the details of the flights on which the patient was travelling (via Casablanca, Heathrow and Glasgow):UK #Ebola case: Patient left Sierra Leone on 28 Dec, flights: AT596 Freetown-Casablanca, AT0800 Casablanca-London, BA1478 Heathrow-Glasgow\n\n8.58pm GMT\n20:58\n\nWhile we\u2019ve been focusing for the last while on events here in the UK, the real crisis is still very much in West Africa, where the virus has caused more than 7,800 deaths.Based on a two month investigation, the New York Times has just published a report on what it says was a fleeting moment last Spring to bring the epidemic under control, and which it says was lost.After more than 20,000 cases and 7,800 deaths, it can be hard to recall that there was a moment in the spring when the longest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in history might have been stopped.But without a robust and coordinated response, an invisible epidemic was allowed to thrive alongside the one assumed to be contained.Although conditions were ideal for the virus to go underground, some of the world\u2019s most experienced Ebola fighters convinced themselves that the sharp decline in newly reported cases in April and May was real.The NY Times investigation reports that the World Health Organisation and the Guinean health ministry documented in March that a handful of people had recently died or been sick with Ebola-like symptoms across the border in Sierra Leone.However, the information about two of those possible infections reportedly never reached senior health officials and the team investigating suspected cases in Sierra Leone.Updated\nat 9.01pm GMT\n\n\n8.48pm GMT\n20:48\n\nThe Department of Health tweets this public health message in a bid to alleviate fears:To catch #Ebola you have to come into contact with someone\u2019s bodily fluids pic.twitter.com/XzSxQGYGWIPublic Health England has further advisory notes on Ebola here, including advice for humanitarian workers and for health workers in NHS hospitals, community care and for family and friends of staff who are working in environments where they may come into contact with Ebola. Updated\nat 8.49pm GMT\n\n\n8.42pm GMT\n20:42\n\nA confirmed Ebola case among one of the first healthcare workers to leave the UK for Sierra Leone is a major blow to the health authorities who have been trying to quieten fears about any possible impact here while ramping up the fight in west Africa, according to the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley.In an analysis piece which you can read in full here, she adds that huge efforts were made to try to ensure that none of the hundreds of NHS workers who volunteered to make the trip would return with the virus. It took several months before the final decisions were made on which volunteers would be sent. They were given psychological tests and intensive training; the first batch were trained for nine days, much of it in a simulated treatment centre at the sort of high temperatures to be expected in Sierra Leone.While it\u2019s not surprising that a healthcare worker from the UK has been infected, the unfortunate thing is that it has happened so soon, she adds:It would be a tragedy if this incident stops more volunteers being sent or if it starts another wave of Ebola panic in the UK. This virus would not easily be passed on in this country.The healthcare worker who has fallen ill must have been sufficiently well to pass the many temperature checks on the route home, first at Freetown airport, then in Casablanca which has a full body heat scanner and then at Heathrow airport, where Public Health England\u2019s nurses take you through a questionnaire and yet another temperature check. Updated\nat 10.40pm GMT\n\n\n8.37pm GMT\n20:37\n\nA spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has said it was not yet clear when the patient would be transferred to London from Glasgow. He said:The Royal Free London can confirm that it is expecting to receive a patient who has tested positive for Ebola.The patient will be treated in the high level isolation unit (HLIU). The unit is run by a dedicated team of doctors and laboratory staff and access is restricted to specially trained medical staff. A specially designed tent is set up around the patient\u2019s bed so the infection can be contained while they are treated. \n\n8.28pm GMT\n20:28\n\nNow is probably a good time to re-read this myth busting piece by the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley. Some key points:How is Ebola spread?The Ebola virus is transmitted in the bodily fluids of people who are seriously ill, who are likely to be vomiting, bleeding or have diarrhoea. Blood, faeces and vomit are the most infectious fluids, and in late stages of the disease even tiny amounts can carry high loads of virus. But a nurse who got a patient\u2019s blood on their hands could wash it off with soap and water without any ill-effects. He or she would become ill only if they had a cut or abrasion on their hand or touched their mouth, eyes or nose, which would allow the virus to pass into their bodily fluids.What are the symptoms?It can take two to 21 days for symptoms to show, although usually it is five to seven days. Typically, the first signs are a fever involving a headache, joint and muscle pain, sore throat and severe muscle weakness. Many of those symptoms are similar to flu, so Ebola is not immediately obvious, though it should be suspected in anyone who has been in west Africa recently. After that come diarrhoea, vomiting, a rash and stomach pain. The kidneys and liver stop working properly. Patients may bleed internally and also from the ears, nose, eyes and mouth.Updated\nat 8.30pm GMT\n\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nSome reaction now from the Prme Minister, David Cameron, via Twitter:PM and Scotland\u2019s First Minister agree to ensure everything possible will be done to support #Ebola patient and protect public health.\n\n8.20pm GMT\n20:20\n\nSo what happens now in terms of the timetable for treating the nurse diagnosed in Glasgow? It\u2019s now expected that they will be transferred to London tomorrow morning rather than tonight.When they get there, it\u2019s likely that infectious disease consultants are likely to consider the option of giving the nurse some of the plasma donated by Will Pooley, the British nurse who survived Ebola and subsequently returned to work in Sierra Leone in October.My colleague Lisa O\u2019Carroll, who has reported from Sierra Leone, adds:Pooley banked 1.2 litres of plasma in a lab in Birmingham, consenting it to be used on a patient/and or for research for \u201cconvalescent therapy serum\u201d. However his plasma will only be relevant if the two nurses blood type matches. Chance of nurse in Glasgow's survival much higher than Africa where Ebola has killed more than 350 health workers.Updated\nat 8.34pm GMT\n\n\n8.15pm GMT\n20:15\n\nDr Sarah Wollaston, Conservative MP and Chair of the House of Commons Health Select Committee, has said that a case like this had been expected and that the risk to the public from returning health workers is \u201ceffectively zero\u201d.The real danger is if we do not continue to tackle the disease in West Africa, she told BBC News. The real danger would be if the disease was to \u201cget out of control\u201d in west Africa.As Will Pooley, the British ebola survivor put it in his alternative Christmas message for Channel 4, ebola is \u201ca global problem and it will take the world to fix it\u201d.Updated\nat 11.13pm GMT\n\n\n8.13pm GMT\n20:13\n\nThe consistent theme of commentary coming through now from health experts is that that the public should be aware that Ebola is a disease which is very difficult to transmit.Prof Nigel Brown, President of the Society for General Microbiology, saidIf a person is symptomless they are unable to infect anyone else. Public health officials have fully prepared for an Ebola case being imported into the UK and are ready to respond quickly and efficiently. We should be proud of the British healthcare workers and microbiologists who have volunteered to fight this disease in West Africa.Prof Tom Solomon, Director of Liverpool\u2019s Institute of Infection and Global Health, said:From as early as July, we predicted that the UK was it risk of importing a case of Ebola. Despite restrictions in airline routes, and screening at airports, we thought we were likely to see a case before the end of the year. This has now happened.Because this was a health care worker, who knew what to look out for, and what to do once they felt unwell, the risks to the general public are minimal. It is important to remember that the only people who get Ebola are those who have been caring for someone who had Ebola, because the virus is passed on infected bodily fluids.Those comments were provided via the Science Media Centre.\n\n8.06pm GMT\n20:06\n\nThe flight from Heathrow to Glasgow, along with 71 passengers and crew, was a British Airways flight BA 1478, the Guardian\u2019s Libby Brooks reports from Glasgow.The flight taken from Casablanca was via Moroccan airlines. The flight number is not yet known but Public Health England will be contacting those passengers.Libby also files this from the Glasgow press conference in the last hour:Dr Alisdair MacConacchie, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Consultant in Infectious Diseases, who has been treating the patient, said that the patient had identified themselves as having a fever in the early hours of this morning.She was then transferred to the Brownlee Centre using a specialist ambulance service and admitted to be managed in an isolation facility. She had no contact with other parts of the the NHS or any accident and emergency facility. MacConacchie described the patient\u2019s condition as \u201cquite stable and not showing any great clinical concern at the minute\u201d. Asked about the patient\u2019s prospects, he said that being clinically stable at this stage \u201cshould translate into a good prognosis\u201d.Updated\nat 8.25pm GMT\n", "tags": ["Scotland", "Health policy", "Health", "UK news", "World news", "Ebola", "Glasgow"], "title": "Ebola case confirmed in Scotland"},{"date": "2014-12-19T18:32:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The recent attack on Unite (Editorial, 15 December) ought to be beneath your paper. It made incorrect accusations and in doing so exposed a fundamental lack of understanding of how trade unions function. Unite did not spend \u201cenormous amounts of money\u201d to \u201cthwart\u201d Jim Murphy. The money we spent to support Neil Findlay was used to communicate to Unite members, entirely in keeping with Labour party rules. The decision was in itself taken by Unite members \u2013 the working men and women of our regional committee who opted to back him \u2013 because that is how we operate, as a member-led, decision-making body. Far from being \u201cout of touch\u201d as you suggest, we are duty bound to listen to the day-to-day voice of our members and act upon their wishes.How our individual members cast their vote is up to them, in the privacy of their own homes. They are not the lumpen electorate your writer considers them to be, as can be seen in the votes for the other two candidates. Six in 10 of our members chose to back Neil Findlay because they support his policies. Jim Murphy is now the Scottish Labour leader. Consistent with the values of our movement and the wishes of the electorate, Unite will work alongside him in the hope of winning back disillusioned Labour voters. I urge that the Guardian reflects upon the true nature of this vote and the genuine challenges ahead for Labour in Scotland, and in so doing resists the temptation to indulge what seems to be little more than the anti-union bias of some on its editorial team.Len McCluskeyGeneral secretary, Unite the union\u2022 Your interesting two-part series, Britain on the brink and How the kingdom survived (17-18 December) had an unfortunately misleading subhead: The real story of the Scottish referendum. You explained very well the unity of the establishment in overcoming the threat to its existence but readers might have come away with the impression that it was only the SNP that stood against them. A grass-roots movement of remarkable proportions spread the Yes vote across the country. The Radical Independence Campaign, Hope over Fear, the National Collective, the Common Weal and others built one of the largest anti-austerity movements in Europe. For them it was not a campaign to support nationalism but a burning desire for social change and self-determination. This partly explains why 97% of Scots registered to vote \u2013 the highest level in Scotland or Britain since the introduction of universal suffrage \u2013 and turnout was 85%, compared with 65% at the 2010 general election.And the campaign continues. For example, the post-referendum conference of the Radical Independence Campaign, held in Glasgow last month, attracted more than 7,000 requests for tickets. In the end only half that number could be accommodated but to do so the organisers had to hire extra venues to cater for meetings on an astonishing range of social and political topics. The conference agreed a policy of a social alternative to austerity and privatisation; a green sustainable economy; a modern republic for real democracy; and internationalism based on opposition to Nato and Trident.Murray ArmstrongLondon\u2022 Your account of the referendum campaign exposes the SNP\u2019s obfuscation, now even more successful than ever in pulling the wool over the eyes of so many Scots. Three months on, Alex Salmond has obtained a safe seat to carry him to Westminster, Nicola Sturgeon coasts along promising referendum 2 and neither has yet been called upon to answer their false promises to the needy in Scotland. Horrid cliche, hence perfect for David Cameron and the SNP \u2013 be careful what you wish for.Carolyn KirtonAberdeen", "tags": ["Scotland", "Unite", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Jim Murphy", "Labour", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Unite and the ongoing debate in Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2014-12-01T15:42:37Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This weekend saw Changin Scotland at the Ceilidh Place in Ullapool (no, I don\u2019t understand why it\u2019s missing a \u2018g\u2019 either). Now in its twelfth year, this biannual gathering of politics, culture and ideas was predominantly \u2018yes\u2019 (still a thing: more of that later), more lefty than SNP, with a strongly Highland flavour. (Indeed, in his talk on land and social change, Jim Hunter argued that centralised SNP government had not been good for the Highlands and Islands: \u201cfrom a nationalist perspective Scotland is one nation and the idea that parts are unique makes them uncomfortable\u201d.) The gathering was founded by writer and researcher Gerry Hassan, and the MSP, Ceilidh Place owner and all-round renaissance woman Jean Urquhart. Here, she talks about the \u201cidea of the ceilidh\u201d as a place of debate as well as dancing.Another speaker was Madeleine Bunting, who travelled through the Hebrides this summer researching a book on the history of the relationship between England and Scotland. In her own talk she said a fascinating thing: \u201c \u2018Remote\u2019 is a political term\u201d. Here she picks up on the suggestion from constitutional lawyer Adam Tomkins that the experience of the Scottish independence referendum had revealed England (outside of London) to be the worst governed part of the UK, as well as the presentation by Lateral North on Scotland\u2019s future as a northern nation.A few gossipy notes: Adam Tomkins, who was also one of the Conservative representatives on the Smith Commission, told the audience that it was Harriet Harman who vetoed the devolution of abortion; some eyebrows were raised at Makar Liz Lochhead\u2019s very public joining of the SNP; Ross Colquhoun admitted that National Collective had at one point during the referendum campaign sent a yes sign into space (photographic evidence here; no, really). Talking of Smith, land reform expert Andy Wightman thought that giving Holyrood responsibility for the management of the crown estate in Scotland was a recommendation that had been seriously under-played in its significance. Here he explains why.This isn\u2019t a weekend for technocrats, however. At around 130 attendees, many local to the area, it wasn\u2019t the biggest post-referendum event I\u2019ve been to in recent weeks, but it was brimful of ideas. With around half of the audience new to the gathering, much of the discussion focused around how to harness and realign the energy unleashed by the pro-independence movement in this liminal period post-Smith, pre-general election. (It would be a disaster, the Radical Independence Campaign\u2019s Cat Boyd told the audience, to get trapped in a decade long battle between Labour and the SNP.)Lisa MacDonald, a teacher and poet from Ullapool, describes her own first impressions of Changin Scotland and the political awakening that brought her here:One note of caution: for all the heartfelt talk of reaching out to the 55% who voted no, it was still the case that the temperature in the village hall dropped by several degrees when Adam Tomkins was speaking. Certainly, the man is a Tory, but one of the most simpatico you\u2019re likely to stumble across in Scotland these days. \u201cReaching\u201d was an active verb last time I looked. This was one theme of playwright David Greig\u2019s talk. Greig, for my money one of the most subtle observers of indyref behaviour, insisted that it was \u201cincumbent on the people who want the spirit of yes to continue\u201d to create a public realm that doesn\u2019t calcify into yes and no. He also asked the hugely pertinent question: why are we not talking about currency anymore? Greig elaborates on both points below. This gathering also marked the final one to be organised by Hassan and Urquhart. There was some discussion on the final morning of how best to keep the kettle boiling: the Ceilidh Place is still keen to be a venue, and other groups like National Collective might offer their services. In the meantime, if you\u2019re looking for an events organising role before next March, you know where to apply....", "tags": ["Scotland"], "title": "After the Scottish independence referendum: Changin Scotland"},{"date": "2014-10-24T09:32:10Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland is to reduce its drink-driving limit in time for Christmas, with motorists advised not to get behind the wheel if they have drunk any alcohol whatsoever.The reduction from 80mg to 50mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood means that drivers could be breaking the law if they have drunk a small glass of wine or single pint of beer. The new limit brings the country into line with Northern Ireland and most of Europe, while the limit in England and Wales remains at 80mg.From 5 December, traffic police will be able to breathalyse drivers at the reduced limit as the force launches its annual festive crackdown.According to latest estimates, around one in 10 deaths on Scotland\u2019s roads involve drivers who are over the legal limit.The Scottish parliament originally voted in favour of reducing the drink-drive limit two years ago but implementation of the new law was severely delayed by administrative backlogs at Westminster, which still reserves powers over the setting of breathalyser limits and their admissibility in court.Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland on Friday morning, the Scottish justice secretary, Kenny MacAskill, said the plans to reduce the drink-drive limit had \u201cbroad support\u201d.A previous government consultation found that almost three quarters of the public backed the proposed change. MacAskill added: \u201cThe support comes not just from the police and law enforcement. It comes from those involved in road safety.\u201dAsked on the Good Morning Scotland show why a joint approach had not been agreed with the Westminster government, MacAskill said: \u201cWe did seek that, but it was the United Kingdom government that decided not to lower the limit despite, I think, a great deal of public support for it being lowered down there.\u201d", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Road safety", "Road transport"], "title": "Scotland drink-drive limit to be reduced"},{"date": "2014-12-29T22:57:28Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n10.56pm GMT\n22:56\n\nUpdated\nat 10.57pm GMT\n\n\n10.06pm GMT\n22:06\n\nAfter chairing a meeting of the Whitehall Cobra contingencies committee in London, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said there would be a review of the \u201cprocedures and protocols\u201d adopted by NHS workers and other government staff working in Sierra Leone.We are reviewing our procedures and protocols for the other NHS workers who are working in Sierra Leone alongside colleagues from the Department for International Development and the Foreign Office.They are doing a very, very brave job, under very challenging circumstances. We want to make absolutely sure that we are doing everything we can to keep them safe.Hunt also told the BBC that the authorities were in the process of tracing all the passengers on the flights between Casablanca and London and London and Glasgow.The clinical advice is that the risk to other passengers was very low, he added.\n\n9.54pm GMT\n21:54\n\nSave the Children has confirmed that the woman being treated for ebola in Glasgow is an NHS healthworker who was working for the charity.Michael von Bertele, Save the Children Humanitarian Director, said:We can confirm that an NHS healthworker working with Save the Children at the Ebola Treatment Centre at Kerry Town, Sierra Leone, has tested positive for Ebola.Our thoughts are with the individual, their family and colleagues at this difficult time. We wish them a speedy recovery.Save the Children is working closely with the UK Government, Scottish Government and Public Health England to look into the circumstances surrounding the case.\n\n9.51pm GMT\n21:51\n\nBy coincidence earlier this evening, we published the fourth report for the Guardian by Martin Deahl, a consultant psychiatrist from Shropshire who is working in Sierra Leone.From his placement with the international aid agency Goal at their Ebola treatment centre in Port Loko, he reflects on the highs and lows of the \u2018most surreal and extraordinary\u2019 Christmas of his life:Late on Christmas Eve we got the lab-test result for Gabriel, one of the patients on the confirmed ward. He collapsed two weeks ago just as the UK\u2019s international development secretary, Justine Greening, was arriving at the Goal Ebola Treatment Centre (ETC) for a visit. I had helped him to a chair and unwittingly became an Ebola contact in the process. It\u2019s easy to forget that it\u2019s not just the red zone that\u2019s dangerous: Ebola is everywhere.\n\n9.37pm GMT\n21:37\n\nBritish Airways has said that the airline is working closely with health authorities in England and Scotland and will offer assistance with any information they require. A spokesman said: Customers who flew from London Heathrow to Glasgow on BA1478 which departed at 2100 on Sunday December 28 and have concerns should contact the special number 08000 858531 set up by the Scottish Government.The safety and security of our customers and crew is always our top priority and the risk to people on board that individual flight is extremely low.[ The patient\u2019s leg between Sierra Leone and Casablanca was flown with Royal Air Maroc]Updated\nat 10.44pm GMT\n\n\n9.30pm GMT\n21:30\n\nBritish health authorities have confirmed the details of the flights on which the patient was travelling (via Casablanca, Heathrow and Glasgow):UK #Ebola case: Patient left Sierra Leone on 28 Dec, flights: AT596 Freetown-Casablanca, AT0800 Casablanca-London, BA1478 Heathrow-Glasgow\n\n8.58pm GMT\n20:58\n\nWhile we\u2019ve been focusing for the last while on events here in the UK, the real crisis is still very much in West Africa, where the virus has caused more than 7,800 deaths.Based on a two month investigation, the New York Times has just published a report on what it says was a fleeting moment last Spring to bring the epidemic under control, and which it says was lost.After more than 20,000 cases and 7,800 deaths, it can be hard to recall that there was a moment in the spring when the longest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in history might have been stopped.But without a robust and coordinated response, an invisible epidemic was allowed to thrive alongside the one assumed to be contained.Although conditions were ideal for the virus to go underground, some of the world\u2019s most experienced Ebola fighters convinced themselves that the sharp decline in newly reported cases in April and May was real.The NY Times investigation reports that the World Health Organisation and the Guinean health ministry documented in March that a handful of people had recently died or been sick with Ebola-like symptoms across the border in Sierra Leone.However, the information about two of those possible infections reportedly never reached senior health officials and the team investigating suspected cases in Sierra Leone.Updated\nat 9.01pm GMT\n\n\n8.48pm GMT\n20:48\n\nThe Department of Health tweets this public health message in a bid to alleviate fears:To catch #Ebola you have to come into contact with someone\u2019s bodily fluids pic.twitter.com/XzSxQGYGWIPublic Health England has further advisory notes on Ebola here, including advice for humanitarian workers and for health workers in NHS hospitals, community care and for family and friends of staff who are working in environments where they may come into contact with Ebola. Updated\nat 8.49pm GMT\n\n\n8.42pm GMT\n20:42\n\nA confirmed Ebola case among one of the first healthcare workers to leave the UK for Sierra Leone is a major blow to the health authorities who have been trying to quieten fears about any possible impact here while ramping up the fight in west Africa, according to the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley.In an analysis piece which you can read in full here, she adds that huge efforts were made to try to ensure that none of the hundreds of NHS workers who volunteered to make the trip would return with the virus. It took several months before the final decisions were made on which volunteers would be sent. They were given psychological tests and intensive training; the first batch were trained for nine days, much of it in a simulated treatment centre at the sort of high temperatures to be expected in Sierra Leone.While it\u2019s not surprising that a healthcare worker from the UK has been infected, the unfortunate thing is that it has happened so soon, she adds:It would be a tragedy if this incident stops more volunteers being sent or if it starts another wave of Ebola panic in the UK. This virus would not easily be passed on in this country.The healthcare worker who has fallen ill must have been sufficiently well to pass the many temperature checks on the route home, first at Freetown airport, then in Casablanca which has a full body heat scanner and then at Heathrow airport, where Public Health England\u2019s nurses take you through a questionnaire and yet another temperature check. Updated\nat 10.40pm GMT\n\n\n8.37pm GMT\n20:37\n\nA spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has said it was not yet clear when the patient would be transferred to London from Glasgow. He said:The Royal Free London can confirm that it is expecting to receive a patient who has tested positive for Ebola.The patient will be treated in the high level isolation unit (HLIU). The unit is run by a dedicated team of doctors and laboratory staff and access is restricted to specially trained medical staff. A specially designed tent is set up around the patient\u2019s bed so the infection can be contained while they are treated. \n\n8.28pm GMT\n20:28\n\nNow is probably a good time to re-read this myth busting piece by the Guardian\u2019s Health Editor, Sarah Boseley. Some key points:How is Ebola spread?The Ebola virus is transmitted in the bodily fluids of people who are seriously ill, who are likely to be vomiting, bleeding or have diarrhoea. Blood, faeces and vomit are the most infectious fluids, and in late stages of the disease even tiny amounts can carry high loads of virus. But a nurse who got a patient\u2019s blood on their hands could wash it off with soap and water without any ill-effects. He or she would become ill only if they had a cut or abrasion on their hand or touched their mouth, eyes or nose, which would allow the virus to pass into their bodily fluids.What are the symptoms?It can take two to 21 days for symptoms to show, although usually it is five to seven days. Typically, the first signs are a fever involving a headache, joint and muscle pain, sore throat and severe muscle weakness. Many of those symptoms are similar to flu, so Ebola is not immediately obvious, though it should be suspected in anyone who has been in west Africa recently. After that come diarrhoea, vomiting, a rash and stomach pain. The kidneys and liver stop working properly. Patients may bleed internally and also from the ears, nose, eyes and mouth.Updated\nat 8.30pm GMT\n\n\n8.24pm GMT\n20:24\n\nSome reaction now from the Prme Minister, David Cameron, via Twitter:PM and Scotland\u2019s First Minister agree to ensure everything possible will be done to support #Ebola patient and protect public health.\n\n8.20pm GMT\n20:20\n\nSo what happens now in terms of the timetable for treating the nurse diagnosed in Glasgow? It\u2019s now expected that they will be transferred to London tomorrow morning rather than tonight.When they get there, it\u2019s likely that infectious disease consultants are likely to consider the option of giving the nurse some of the plasma donated by Will Pooley, the British nurse who survived Ebola and subsequently returned to work in Sierra Leone in October.My colleague Lisa O\u2019Carroll, who has reported from Sierra Leone, adds:Pooley banked 1.2 litres of plasma in a lab in Birmingham, consenting it to be used on a patient/and or for research for \u201cconvalescent therapy serum\u201d. However his plasma will only be relevant if the two nurses blood type matches. Chance of nurse in Glasgow's survival much higher than Africa where Ebola has killed more than 350 health workers.Updated\nat 8.34pm GMT\n\n\n8.15pm GMT\n20:15\n\nDr Sarah Wollaston, Conservative MP and Chair of the House of Commons Health Select Committee, has said that a case like this had been expected and that the risk to the public from returning health workers is \u201ceffectively zero\u201d.The real danger is if we do not continue to tackle the disease in West Africa, she told BBC News. The real danger would be if the disease was to \u201cget out of control\u201d in west Africa.As Will Pooley, the British ebola survivor put it in his alternative Christmas message for Channel 4, ebola is \u201ca global problem and it will take the world to fix it\u201d.Updated\nat 11.13pm GMT\n\n\n8.13pm GMT\n20:13\n\nThe consistent theme of commentary coming through now from health experts is that that the public should be aware that Ebola is a disease which is very difficult to transmit.Prof Nigel Brown, President of the Society for General Microbiology, saidIf a person is symptomless they are unable to infect anyone else. Public health officials have fully prepared for an Ebola case being imported into the UK and are ready to respond quickly and efficiently. We should be proud of the British healthcare workers and microbiologists who have volunteered to fight this disease in West Africa.Prof Tom Solomon, Director of Liverpool\u2019s Institute of Infection and Global Health, said:From as early as July, we predicted that the UK was it risk of importing a case of Ebola. Despite restrictions in airline routes, and screening at airports, we thought we were likely to see a case before the end of the year. This has now happened.Because this was a health care worker, who knew what to look out for, and what to do once they felt unwell, the risks to the general public are minimal. It is important to remember that the only people who get Ebola are those who have been caring for someone who had Ebola, because the virus is passed on infected bodily fluids.Those comments were provided via the Science Media Centre.\n\n8.06pm GMT\n20:06\n\nThe flight from Heathrow to Glasgow, along with 71 passengers and crew, was a British Airways flight BA 1478, the Guardian\u2019s Libby Brooks reports from Glasgow.The flight taken from Casablanca was via Moroccan airlines. The flight number is not yet known but Public Health England will be contacting those passengers.Libby also files this from the Glasgow press conference in the last hour:Dr Alisdair MacConacchie, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde Consultant in Infectious Diseases, who has been treating the patient, said that the patient had identified themselves as having a fever in the early hours of this morning.She was then transferred to the Brownlee Centre using a specialist ambulance service and admitted to be managed in an isolation facility. She had no contact with other parts of the the NHS or any accident and emergency facility. MacConacchie described the patient\u2019s condition as \u201cquite stable and not showing any great clinical concern at the minute\u201d. Asked about the patient\u2019s prospects, he said that being clinically stable at this stage \u201cshould translate into a good prognosis\u201d.Updated\nat 8.25pm GMT\n", "tags": ["Scotland", "Health policy", "Health", "UK news", "World news", "Ebola", "Glasgow"], "title": "Ebola case confirmed in Scotland"},{"date": "2014-12-19T18:32:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The recent attack on Unite (Editorial, 15 December) ought to be beneath your paper. It made incorrect accusations and in doing so exposed a fundamental lack of understanding of how trade unions function. Unite did not spend \u201cenormous amounts of money\u201d to \u201cthwart\u201d Jim Murphy. The money we spent to support Neil Findlay was used to communicate to Unite members, entirely in keeping with Labour party rules. The decision was in itself taken by Unite members \u2013 the working men and women of our regional committee who opted to back him \u2013 because that is how we operate, as a member-led, decision-making body. Far from being \u201cout of touch\u201d as you suggest, we are duty bound to listen to the day-to-day voice of our members and act upon their wishes.How our individual members cast their vote is up to them, in the privacy of their own homes. They are not the lumpen electorate your writer considers them to be, as can be seen in the votes for the other two candidates. Six in 10 of our members chose to back Neil Findlay because they support his policies. Jim Murphy is now the Scottish Labour leader. Consistent with the values of our movement and the wishes of the electorate, Unite will work alongside him in the hope of winning back disillusioned Labour voters. I urge that the Guardian reflects upon the true nature of this vote and the genuine challenges ahead for Labour in Scotland, and in so doing resists the temptation to indulge what seems to be little more than the anti-union bias of some on its editorial team.Len McCluskeyGeneral secretary, Unite the union\u2022 Your interesting two-part series, Britain on the brink and How the kingdom survived (17-18 December) had an unfortunately misleading subhead: The real story of the Scottish referendum. You explained very well the unity of the establishment in overcoming the threat to its existence but readers might have come away with the impression that it was only the SNP that stood against them. A grass-roots movement of remarkable proportions spread the Yes vote across the country. The Radical Independence Campaign, Hope over Fear, the National Collective, the Common Weal and others built one of the largest anti-austerity movements in Europe. For them it was not a campaign to support nationalism but a burning desire for social change and self-determination. This partly explains why 97% of Scots registered to vote \u2013 the highest level in Scotland or Britain since the introduction of universal suffrage \u2013 and turnout was 85%, compared with 65% at the 2010 general election.And the campaign continues. For example, the post-referendum conference of the Radical Independence Campaign, held in Glasgow last month, attracted more than 7,000 requests for tickets. In the end only half that number could be accommodated but to do so the organisers had to hire extra venues to cater for meetings on an astonishing range of social and political topics. The conference agreed a policy of a social alternative to austerity and privatisation; a green sustainable economy; a modern republic for real democracy; and internationalism based on opposition to Nato and Trident.Murray ArmstrongLondon\u2022 Your account of the referendum campaign exposes the SNP\u2019s obfuscation, now even more successful than ever in pulling the wool over the eyes of so many Scots. Three months on, Alex Salmond has obtained a safe seat to carry him to Westminster, Nicola Sturgeon coasts along promising referendum 2 and neither has yet been called upon to answer their false promises to the needy in Scotland. Horrid cliche, hence perfect for David Cameron and the SNP \u2013 be careful what you wish for.Carolyn KirtonAberdeen", "tags": ["Scotland", "Unite", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Jim Murphy", "Labour", "Scottish independence"], "title": "Unite and the ongoing debate in Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2014-12-01T15:42:37Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "This weekend saw Changin Scotland at the Ceilidh Place in Ullapool (no, I don\u2019t understand why it\u2019s missing a \u2018g\u2019 either). Now in its twelfth year, this biannual gathering of politics, culture and ideas was predominantly \u2018yes\u2019 (still a thing: more of that later), more lefty than SNP, with a strongly Highland flavour. (Indeed, in his talk on land and social change, Jim Hunter argued that centralised SNP government had not been good for the Highlands and Islands: \u201cfrom a nationalist perspective Scotland is one nation and the idea that parts are unique makes them uncomfortable\u201d.) The gathering was founded by writer and researcher Gerry Hassan, and the MSP, Ceilidh Place owner and all-round renaissance woman Jean Urquhart. Here, she talks about the \u201cidea of the ceilidh\u201d as a place of debate as well as dancing.Another speaker was Madeleine Bunting, who travelled through the Hebrides this summer researching a book on the history of the relationship between England and Scotland. In her own talk she said a fascinating thing: \u201c \u2018Remote\u2019 is a political term\u201d. Here she picks up on the suggestion from constitutional lawyer Adam Tomkins that the experience of the Scottish independence referendum had revealed England (outside of London) to be the worst governed part of the UK, as well as the presentation by Lateral North on Scotland\u2019s future as a northern nation.A few gossipy notes: Adam Tomkins, who was also one of the Conservative representatives on the Smith Commission, told the audience that it was Harriet Harman who vetoed the devolution of abortion; some eyebrows were raised at Makar Liz Lochhead\u2019s very public joining of the SNP; Ross Colquhoun admitted that National Collective had at one point during the referendum campaign sent a yes sign into space (photographic evidence here; no, really). Talking of Smith, land reform expert Andy Wightman thought that giving Holyrood responsibility for the management of the crown estate in Scotland was a recommendation that had been seriously under-played in its significance. Here he explains why.This isn\u2019t a weekend for technocrats, however. At around 130 attendees, many local to the area, it wasn\u2019t the biggest post-referendum event I\u2019ve been to in recent weeks, but it was brimful of ideas. With around half of the audience new to the gathering, much of the discussion focused around how to harness and realign the energy unleashed by the pro-independence movement in this liminal period post-Smith, pre-general election. (It would be a disaster, the Radical Independence Campaign\u2019s Cat Boyd told the audience, to get trapped in a decade long battle between Labour and the SNP.)Lisa MacDonald, a teacher and poet from Ullapool, describes her own first impressions of Changin Scotland and the political awakening that brought her here:One note of caution: for all the heartfelt talk of reaching out to the 55% who voted no, it was still the case that the temperature in the village hall dropped by several degrees when Adam Tomkins was speaking. Certainly, the man is a Tory, but one of the most simpatico you\u2019re likely to stumble across in Scotland these days. \u201cReaching\u201d was an active verb last time I looked. This was one theme of playwright David Greig\u2019s talk. Greig, for my money one of the most subtle observers of indyref behaviour, insisted that it was \u201cincumbent on the people who want the spirit of yes to continue\u201d to create a public realm that doesn\u2019t calcify into yes and no. He also asked the hugely pertinent question: why are we not talking about currency anymore? Greig elaborates on both points below. This gathering also marked the final one to be organised by Hassan and Urquhart. There was some discussion on the final morning of how best to keep the kettle boiling: the Ceilidh Place is still keen to be a venue, and other groups like National Collective might offer their services. In the meantime, if you\u2019re looking for an events organising role before next March, you know where to apply....", "tags": ["Scotland"], "title": "After the Scottish independence referendum: Changin Scotland"},{"date": "2014-10-24T09:32:10Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland is to reduce its drink-driving limit in time for Christmas, with motorists advised not to get behind the wheel if they have drunk any alcohol whatsoever.The reduction from 80mg to 50mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood means that drivers could be breaking the law if they have drunk a small glass of wine or single pint of beer. The new limit brings the country into line with Northern Ireland and most of Europe, while the limit in England and Wales remains at 80mg.From 5 December, traffic police will be able to breathalyse drivers at the reduced limit as the force launches its annual festive crackdown.According to latest estimates, around one in 10 deaths on Scotland\u2019s roads involve drivers who are over the legal limit.The Scottish parliament originally voted in favour of reducing the drink-drive limit two years ago but implementation of the new law was severely delayed by administrative backlogs at Westminster, which still reserves powers over the setting of breathalyser limits and their admissibility in court.Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland on Friday morning, the Scottish justice secretary, Kenny MacAskill, said the plans to reduce the drink-drive limit had \u201cbroad support\u201d.A previous government consultation found that almost three quarters of the public backed the proposed change. MacAskill added: \u201cThe support comes not just from the police and law enforcement. It comes from those involved in road safety.\u201dAsked on the Good Morning Scotland show why a joint approach had not been agreed with the Westminster government, MacAskill said: \u201cWe did seek that, but it was the United Kingdom government that decided not to lower the limit despite, I think, a great deal of public support for it being lowered down there.\u201d", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Road safety", "Road transport"], "title": "Scotland drink-drive limit to be reduced"},{"date": "2014-10-14T18:27:35Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "One of the largest discoveries of Viking treasure in Scotland has been unearthed in Dumfries and Galloway.More than 100 objects, including solid gold jewellery, arm bands and silver ingots, were discovered by a metal-detecting enthusiast on church land in September.The artefacts, thought to have been buried between the mid-ninth and 10th century, include an early Christian cross made of solid silver, with unusual enamelled decorations.Derek McLennan, 47, a retired businessman, said he had gained permission to search the area, but had been feeling unwell on the day. \u201cI dragged myself out of my sickbed because I had two friends who wanted to detect and I\u2019m a bit of an obsessive.\u201dHe said he initially failed to recognise the significance of his find. \u201cI unearthed the first piece; initially I didn\u2019t understand what I had found because I thought it was a silver spoon and then I turned it over and wiped my thumb across it and I saw the saltire-type of design and knew instantly it was Viking. Then my senses exploded.\u201d Further digging revealed a second layer of artefacts.Describing the find as \u201chistorically significant\u201d, Stuart Campbell, head of Scotland\u2019s treasure trove unit, said one of the most exciting objects was an intact Carolingian (western European) pot with its lid still in place, a rare vessel likely to have been an heirloom held by the family that buried the hoard. Campbell described the examination of the pot, which has yet to be emptied, as \u201can excavation in microcosm\u201d.He added: \u201cWhat makes this find so significant is the range of material from different countries and cultures. This was material that was buried for safekeeping, almost like a safety deposit box that was never claimed.\u201dCampbell said that a find like this could also influence the way Scots viewed their historic relationship with the Vikings. \u201cWe have the idea of Vikings as foreigners who carried out raids on Scotland, but this was a Viking area where they settled and traded, and the people who lived there were culturally and linguistically Norse.\u201dThe hoard falls under the Scots law of treasure trove, which provides for a reward to be made to the finder, and the Church of Scotland, as the landowners, have reached agreement with McLennan about an equitable sharing of any proceeds.The Scottish government\u2019s culture secretary, Fiona Hyslop, said: \u201cIt\u2019s clear that these artefacts are of great value in themselves, but their greatest value will be in what they can contribute to our understanding of life in early medieval Scotland, and what they tell us about the interaction between the different peoples in these islands at that time. The Dumfries hoard opens a fascinating window on a formative period in the story of Scotland.\u201d", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Archaeology", "Science"], "title": "Viking treasure trove discovered in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-01-25T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Difficulty ModerateDistance 2.5 miles/4kmTypical duration 2 hoursStart and finish Stac Pollaidh car park on the Achiltibuie roadMap OS Landranger 15Step-by-step details and maps ramblers.org.uk/stacNothing can quite prepare you for the stark beauty of Scotland\u2019s far north-west, and climbing Stac Pollaidh shows off this area at its very best, treating you to panoramic views over Britain\u2019s great wilderness. Other than a very steep climb to the ridge, the rewards far outweigh the effort, with relatively straightforward terrain to negotiate.Be prepared for a short, simple scramble to reach the ridge (easily manageable, just take extra care), from which you\u2019ll enjoy the kind of views that you\u2019d expect to have to climb for miles to experience \u2013 and you might even spot a golden eagle or red deer.Rising from a maze of small lochs and rocky outcrops, the mountains in this region possess a surreal quality that owes as much to the other-worldly emptiness of their surroundings as the suddenness with which they rise from them.Stac Pollaidh is a colossal ice-smoothed lump with a distinctive spiky-topped ridge. It has been of fascination to geologists for years. Consisting of chocolate-red sandstone, it rests on the Precambrian metamorphic bedrock of Lewisian Gneiss, formed 1,500 million years ago.As this is the most visited peak in the north-west Highlands, Stac Pollaidh saw a lot of erosion, its surface being worn away by the footsteps of the people who flocked here seeking the beautiful views. These days, the mountain has a constructed path, making the climb up much easier and helping with navigation too.This route heads up steadily, the final ascent is very steep, well worth the effort to reach the ridge. Gaze south and west and you\u2019ll be looking over Loch Lugainn to the Summer Isles in the mouth of Loch Broom. Look north and you\u2019ll see the staggeringly beautiful Inverpolly Nature Reserve and the peaks of Assynt beyond.Word of warning: the weather can deteriorate rapidly, making the path more difficult to follow, so be sure to check the forecast in advance and ensure you\u2019ve adequate clothing in case the weather does turn; it has caught out many-a walker.There\u2019s no pub or cafe in this remote location, but Am Fuaran is a gem of a bar, tucked away on the tip of the Coigach peninsula in Altandhu. Famed for its freshseafood, it\u2019s worth a short drive to enjoy the sunset over a quiet pint and a plate of local poached salmon or prawns.Scotbus 811 runs from Ullapool to Reiff, passing Stac Pollaidh car park. Unfortunately, the gap between the outward and return services doesn\u2019t always leave enough time to climb the mountain. Check the timetable at travelinescotland.com. By road, Stac Pollaidh is off the A835 from Ullapool.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Climbing holidays"], "title": "Great country walks: Stac Pollaidh, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-01-25T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Difficulty ModerateDistance 2.5 miles/4kmTypical duration 2 hoursStart and finish Stac Pollaidh car park on the Achiltibuie roadMap OS Landranger 15Step-by-step details and maps ramblers.org.uk/stacNothing can quite prepare you for the stark beauty of Scotland\u2019s far north-west, and climbing Stac Pollaidh shows off this area at its very best, treating you to panoramic views over Britain\u2019s great wilderness. Other than a very steep climb to the ridge, the rewards far outweigh the effort, with relatively straightforward terrain to negotiate.Be prepared for a short, simple scramble to reach the ridge (easily manageable, just take extra care), from which you\u2019ll enjoy the kind of views that you\u2019d expect to have to climb for miles to experience \u2013 and you might even spot a golden eagle or red deer.Rising from a maze of small lochs and rocky outcrops, the mountains in this region possess a surreal quality that owes as much to the other-worldly emptiness of their surroundings as the suddenness with which they rise from them.Stac Pollaidh is a colossal ice-smoothed lump with a distinctive spiky-topped ridge. It has been of fascination to geologists for years. Consisting of chocolate-red sandstone, it rests on the Precambrian metamorphic bedrock of Lewisian Gneiss, formed 1,500 million years ago.As this is the most visited peak in the north-west Highlands, Stac Pollaidh saw a lot of erosion, its surface being worn away by the footsteps of the people who flocked here seeking the beautiful views. These days, the mountain has a constructed path, making the climb up much easier and helping with navigation too.This route heads up steadily, the final ascent is very steep, well worth the effort to reach the ridge. Gaze south and west and you\u2019ll be looking over Loch Lugainn to the Summer Isles in the mouth of Loch Broom. Look north and you\u2019ll see the staggeringly beautiful Inverpolly Nature Reserve and the peaks of Assynt beyond.Word of warning: the weather can deteriorate rapidly, making the path more difficult to follow, so be sure to check the forecast in advance and ensure you\u2019ve adequate clothing in case the weather does turn; it has caught out many-a walker.There\u2019s no pub or cafe in this remote location, but Am Fuaran is a gem of a bar, tucked away on the tip of the Coigach peninsula in Altandhu. Famed for its freshseafood, it\u2019s worth a short drive to enjoy the sunset over a quiet pint and a plate of local poached salmon or prawns.Scotbus 811 runs from Ullapool to Reiff, passing Stac Pollaidh car park. Unfortunately, the gap between the outward and return services doesn\u2019t always leave enough time to climb the mountain. Check the timetable at travelinescotland.com. By road, Stac Pollaidh is off the A835 from Ullapool.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Climbing holidays"], "title": "Great country walks: Stac Pollaidh, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-03-27T10:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The United Reformed Church (URC) of Scotland has committed to pull out its investments in fossil fuel companies. The resolution was passed with \u201coverwhelming support\u201d on Saturday at a meeting of their General Synod at the Scottish Police College in Fife. The synod contains 50 churches and is one of 13 synods representing 60,000 members in the URC in Great Britain.A spokesman for the synod says about 4% of its total portfolio is invested in oil, coal and gas companies, including Shell and Total. They have committed to divest from all such companies and to not make any future fossil fuel investments. Eco-Congregation Scotland, the environmental movement for Scottish churches, estimate that their current assets amount to \u00a370,000.On March 16 the Guardian began a campaign calling on the world\u2019s two largest charitable foundations \u2013 the Wellcome Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation \u2013 to divest from fossil fuels. The campaign, which has attracted more than 144,000 signatures, is part of a new climate change project introduced by editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger. There are several times more fossil fuel reserves in the ground than can be burned if the world is to reach international targets to keep global warming within a 2C rise and avoid catastrophic climate change. Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, has said that \u201cthe vast majority of reserves are unburnable\u201d which would mean that the assets of fossil fuel companies would become \u201cstranded\u201d or worthless.Reverend John Humphreys, moderator of the church\u2019s synod in Scotland, said: \u201cI\u2019m delighted that the synod has shown a clear commitment to ethical investment. They have taken affirmative action against climate change and put people and the planet at the heart of their decision making. We hope and pray that other churches will feel able to respond ethically to the growing threat of catastrophic climate change.\u201dThe URC joins a fast-growing divestment movement, begun by the global climate organisation 350.org. Since its beginning in 2010, more than 220 institutions have committed to divest including universities, pension funds and philanthropic foundations.The divestment campaign targeting the URC emerged from a small group of its members. They say it was prompted by a recommendation from the World Council of Churches, which ruled out fossil fuel investments in July 2014. The umbrella organisation represents half a billion Christians and 345 member churches worldwide.Mark Letcher, campaign co-ordinator for the faith-based divestment campaign at Bright Now, said the decision by the URC \u201cmarks a huge step forward for the UK church divestment campaign, which is gathering momentum as churches around the world disinvest. This decision demonstrates the church\u2019s commitment to lead the urgently needed transition away from fossil fuels. We call on other UK churches to follow them\u201d.The Church of England (C of E) has set up a group to take advice on climate change and investment and has been reviewing their strategy for 18 months.The diocese of Birmingham passed a motion on Sunday calling on the C of E to divest, following a similar motion passed by the Oxford diocese in November 2014. The C of E is due to report back later this year.\u2022 This article was amended on 29 March 2015. An earlier version said that the United Reformed Church of Scotland represented 1,472 churches. The Scottish synod represents 50 churches.", "tags": ["Fossil fuel divestment", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Religion", "Christianity", "Scotland", "UK news", "Climate change"], "title": "United Reformed Church of Scotland divests from fossil fuels"},{"date": "2015-01-25T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Difficulty ModerateDistance 2.5 miles/4kmTypical duration 2 hoursStart and finish Stac Pollaidh car park on the Achiltibuie roadMap OS Landranger 15Step-by-step details and maps ramblers.org.uk/stacNothing can quite prepare you for the stark beauty of Scotland\u2019s far north-west, and climbing Stac Pollaidh shows off this area at its very best, treating you to panoramic views over Britain\u2019s great wilderness. Other than a very steep climb to the ridge, the rewards far outweigh the effort, with relatively straightforward terrain to negotiate.Be prepared for a short, simple scramble to reach the ridge (easily manageable, just take extra care), from which you\u2019ll enjoy the kind of views that you\u2019d expect to have to climb for miles to experience \u2013 and you might even spot a golden eagle or red deer.Rising from a maze of small lochs and rocky outcrops, the mountains in this region possess a surreal quality that owes as much to the other-worldly emptiness of their surroundings as the suddenness with which they rise from them.Stac Pollaidh is a colossal ice-smoothed lump with a distinctive spiky-topped ridge. It has been of fascination to geologists for years. Consisting of chocolate-red sandstone, it rests on the Precambrian metamorphic bedrock of Lewisian Gneiss, formed 1,500 million years ago.As this is the most visited peak in the north-west Highlands, Stac Pollaidh saw a lot of erosion, its surface being worn away by the footsteps of the people who flocked here seeking the beautiful views. These days, the mountain has a constructed path, making the climb up much easier and helping with navigation too.This route heads up steadily, the final ascent is very steep, well worth the effort to reach the ridge. Gaze south and west and you\u2019ll be looking over Loch Lugainn to the Summer Isles in the mouth of Loch Broom. Look north and you\u2019ll see the staggeringly beautiful Inverpolly Nature Reserve and the peaks of Assynt beyond.Word of warning: the weather can deteriorate rapidly, making the path more difficult to follow, so be sure to check the forecast in advance and ensure you\u2019ve adequate clothing in case the weather does turn; it has caught out many-a walker.There\u2019s no pub or cafe in this remote location, but Am Fuaran is a gem of a bar, tucked away on the tip of the Coigach peninsula in Altandhu. Famed for its freshseafood, it\u2019s worth a short drive to enjoy the sunset over a quiet pint and a plate of local poached salmon or prawns.Scotbus 811 runs from Ullapool to Reiff, passing Stac Pollaidh car park. Unfortunately, the gap between the outward and return services doesn\u2019t always leave enough time to climb the mountain. Check the timetable at travelinescotland.com. By road, Stac Pollaidh is off the A835 from Ullapool.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Climbing holidays"], "title": "Great country walks: Stac Pollaidh, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-03-27T10:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The United Reformed Church (URC) of Scotland has committed to pull out its investments in fossil fuel companies. The resolution was passed with \u201coverwhelming support\u201d on Saturday at a meeting of their General Synod at the Scottish Police College in Fife. The synod contains 50 churches and is one of 13 synods representing 60,000 members in the URC in Great Britain.A spokesman for the synod says about 4% of its total portfolio is invested in oil, coal and gas companies, including Shell and Total. They have committed to divest from all such companies and to not make any future fossil fuel investments. Eco-Congregation Scotland, the environmental movement for Scottish churches, estimate that their current assets amount to \u00a370,000.On March 16 the Guardian began a campaign calling on the world\u2019s two largest charitable foundations \u2013 the Wellcome Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation \u2013 to divest from fossil fuels. The campaign, which has attracted more than 144,000 signatures, is part of a new climate change project introduced by editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger. There are several times more fossil fuel reserves in the ground than can be burned if the world is to reach international targets to keep global warming within a 2C rise and avoid catastrophic climate change. Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, has said that \u201cthe vast majority of reserves are unburnable\u201d which would mean that the assets of fossil fuel companies would become \u201cstranded\u201d or worthless.Reverend John Humphreys, moderator of the church\u2019s synod in Scotland, said: \u201cI\u2019m delighted that the synod has shown a clear commitment to ethical investment. They have taken affirmative action against climate change and put people and the planet at the heart of their decision making. We hope and pray that other churches will feel able to respond ethically to the growing threat of catastrophic climate change.\u201dThe URC joins a fast-growing divestment movement, begun by the global climate organisation 350.org. Since its beginning in 2010, more than 220 institutions have committed to divest including universities, pension funds and philanthropic foundations.The divestment campaign targeting the URC emerged from a small group of its members. They say it was prompted by a recommendation from the World Council of Churches, which ruled out fossil fuel investments in July 2014. The umbrella organisation represents half a billion Christians and 345 member churches worldwide.Mark Letcher, campaign co-ordinator for the faith-based divestment campaign at Bright Now, said the decision by the URC \u201cmarks a huge step forward for the UK church divestment campaign, which is gathering momentum as churches around the world disinvest. This decision demonstrates the church\u2019s commitment to lead the urgently needed transition away from fossil fuels. We call on other UK churches to follow them\u201d.The Church of England (C of E) has set up a group to take advice on climate change and investment and has been reviewing their strategy for 18 months.The diocese of Birmingham passed a motion on Sunday calling on the C of E to divest, following a similar motion passed by the Oxford diocese in November 2014. The C of E is due to report back later this year.\u2022 This article was amended on 29 March 2015. An earlier version said that the United Reformed Church of Scotland represented 1,472 churches. The Scottish synod represents 50 churches.", "tags": ["Fossil fuel divestment", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Religion", "Christianity", "Scotland", "UK news", "Climate change"], "title": "United Reformed Church of Scotland divests from fossil fuels"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:14:49Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland is to ban smoking in cars with children, bringing it into line with England and Wales, where legislation has been introduced to protect young people from secondhand smoke.The Scottish government announced it would back the smoking prohibition (children in motor vehicles) (Scotland) bill, which has been put forward by the Liberal Democrat MSP Jim Hume.The bill, which it is hoped will receive royal assent before the next Holyrood elections in May 2016, covers all cars, although Hume acknowledged that discussions may take place about exempting convertibles when they have the roof fully down, to bring it into line with English laws.\u201cThis legislation will ensure that we can put a stop to the 60,000 journeys being made in Scotland each week where children are being exposed to dangerous secondhand smoke,\u201d he said. The bans in England and Wales come into effect in October.Secondhand smoke contains more than 4,000 chemicals, and exposure to it has been linked to chest infections, asthma and cot death in children.Welcoming the announcement, the chief executive of ASH Scotland, Sheila Duffy, said: \u201cWe are delighted that ministers have decided to support this important member\u2019s bill, which has the potential to protect thousands of our children from the dangers of breathing secondhand tobacco smoke.\u201dScotland was the first country in the UK to ban smoking in enclosed public places in 2005, and Scottish NHS boards will be required to ensure that their grounds are smoke-free by April. The SNP government pledged in 2013 to achieve a tobacco-free generation within 20 years, with less than 5% of the population choosing to smoke by the target date of 2034.", "tags": ["Smoking", "Society", "Children", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland to ban smoking in cars with children"},{"date": "2015-01-25T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Difficulty ModerateDistance 2.5 miles/4kmTypical duration 2 hoursStart and finish Stac Pollaidh car park on the Achiltibuie roadMap OS Landranger 15Step-by-step details and maps ramblers.org.uk/stacNothing can quite prepare you for the stark beauty of Scotland\u2019s far north-west, and climbing Stac Pollaidh shows off this area at its very best, treating you to panoramic views over Britain\u2019s great wilderness. Other than a very steep climb to the ridge, the rewards far outweigh the effort, with relatively straightforward terrain to negotiate.Be prepared for a short, simple scramble to reach the ridge (easily manageable, just take extra care), from which you\u2019ll enjoy the kind of views that you\u2019d expect to have to climb for miles to experience \u2013 and you might even spot a golden eagle or red deer.Rising from a maze of small lochs and rocky outcrops, the mountains in this region possess a surreal quality that owes as much to the other-worldly emptiness of their surroundings as the suddenness with which they rise from them.Stac Pollaidh is a colossal ice-smoothed lump with a distinctive spiky-topped ridge. It has been of fascination to geologists for years. Consisting of chocolate-red sandstone, it rests on the Precambrian metamorphic bedrock of Lewisian Gneiss, formed 1,500 million years ago.As this is the most visited peak in the north-west Highlands, Stac Pollaidh saw a lot of erosion, its surface being worn away by the footsteps of the people who flocked here seeking the beautiful views. These days, the mountain has a constructed path, making the climb up much easier and helping with navigation too.This route heads up steadily, the final ascent is very steep, well worth the effort to reach the ridge. Gaze south and west and you\u2019ll be looking over Loch Lugainn to the Summer Isles in the mouth of Loch Broom. Look north and you\u2019ll see the staggeringly beautiful Inverpolly Nature Reserve and the peaks of Assynt beyond.Word of warning: the weather can deteriorate rapidly, making the path more difficult to follow, so be sure to check the forecast in advance and ensure you\u2019ve adequate clothing in case the weather does turn; it has caught out many-a walker.There\u2019s no pub or cafe in this remote location, but Am Fuaran is a gem of a bar, tucked away on the tip of the Coigach peninsula in Altandhu. Famed for its freshseafood, it\u2019s worth a short drive to enjoy the sunset over a quiet pint and a plate of local poached salmon or prawns.Scotbus 811 runs from Ullapool to Reiff, passing Stac Pollaidh car park. Unfortunately, the gap between the outward and return services doesn\u2019t always leave enough time to climb the mountain. Check the timetable at travelinescotland.com. By road, Stac Pollaidh is off the A835 from Ullapool.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Climbing holidays"], "title": "Great country walks: Stac Pollaidh, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-03-27T10:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The United Reformed Church (URC) of Scotland has committed to pull out its investments in fossil fuel companies. The resolution was passed with \u201coverwhelming support\u201d on Saturday at a meeting of their General Synod at the Scottish Police College in Fife. The synod contains 50 churches and is one of 13 synods representing 60,000 members in the URC in Great Britain.A spokesman for the synod says about 4% of its total portfolio is invested in oil, coal and gas companies, including Shell and Total. They have committed to divest from all such companies and to not make any future fossil fuel investments. Eco-Congregation Scotland, the environmental movement for Scottish churches, estimate that their current assets amount to \u00a370,000.On March 16 the Guardian began a campaign calling on the world\u2019s two largest charitable foundations \u2013 the Wellcome Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation \u2013 to divest from fossil fuels. The campaign, which has attracted more than 144,000 signatures, is part of a new climate change project introduced by editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger. There are several times more fossil fuel reserves in the ground than can be burned if the world is to reach international targets to keep global warming within a 2C rise and avoid catastrophic climate change. Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, has said that \u201cthe vast majority of reserves are unburnable\u201d which would mean that the assets of fossil fuel companies would become \u201cstranded\u201d or worthless.Reverend John Humphreys, moderator of the church\u2019s synod in Scotland, said: \u201cI\u2019m delighted that the synod has shown a clear commitment to ethical investment. They have taken affirmative action against climate change and put people and the planet at the heart of their decision making. We hope and pray that other churches will feel able to respond ethically to the growing threat of catastrophic climate change.\u201dThe URC joins a fast-growing divestment movement, begun by the global climate organisation 350.org. Since its beginning in 2010, more than 220 institutions have committed to divest including universities, pension funds and philanthropic foundations.The divestment campaign targeting the URC emerged from a small group of its members. They say it was prompted by a recommendation from the World Council of Churches, which ruled out fossil fuel investments in July 2014. The umbrella organisation represents half a billion Christians and 345 member churches worldwide.Mark Letcher, campaign co-ordinator for the faith-based divestment campaign at Bright Now, said the decision by the URC \u201cmarks a huge step forward for the UK church divestment campaign, which is gathering momentum as churches around the world disinvest. This decision demonstrates the church\u2019s commitment to lead the urgently needed transition away from fossil fuels. We call on other UK churches to follow them\u201d.The Church of England (C of E) has set up a group to take advice on climate change and investment and has been reviewing their strategy for 18 months.The diocese of Birmingham passed a motion on Sunday calling on the C of E to divest, following a similar motion passed by the Oxford diocese in November 2014. The C of E is due to report back later this year.\u2022 This article was amended on 29 March 2015. An earlier version said that the United Reformed Church of Scotland represented 1,472 churches. The Scottish synod represents 50 churches.", "tags": ["Fossil fuel divestment", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Religion", "Christianity", "Scotland", "UK news", "Climate change"], "title": "United Reformed Church of Scotland divests from fossil fuels"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:14:49Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland is to ban smoking in cars with children, bringing it into line with England and Wales, where legislation has been introduced to protect young people from secondhand smoke.The Scottish government announced it would back the smoking prohibition (children in motor vehicles) (Scotland) bill, which has been put forward by the Liberal Democrat MSP Jim Hume.The bill, which it is hoped will receive royal assent before the next Holyrood elections in May 2016, covers all cars, although Hume acknowledged that discussions may take place about exempting convertibles when they have the roof fully down, to bring it into line with English laws.\u201cThis legislation will ensure that we can put a stop to the 60,000 journeys being made in Scotland each week where children are being exposed to dangerous secondhand smoke,\u201d he said. The bans in England and Wales come into effect in October.Secondhand smoke contains more than 4,000 chemicals, and exposure to it has been linked to chest infections, asthma and cot death in children.Welcoming the announcement, the chief executive of ASH Scotland, Sheila Duffy, said: \u201cWe are delighted that ministers have decided to support this important member\u2019s bill, which has the potential to protect thousands of our children from the dangers of breathing secondhand tobacco smoke.\u201dScotland was the first country in the UK to ban smoking in enclosed public places in 2005, and Scottish NHS boards will be required to ensure that their grounds are smoke-free by April. The SNP government pledged in 2013 to achieve a tobacco-free generation within 20 years, with less than 5% of the population choosing to smoke by the target date of 2034.", "tags": ["Smoking", "Society", "Children", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland to ban smoking in cars with children"},{"date": "2015-03-19T01:36:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A collection of gruesomely banal objects, including three gallstones which failed to dissolve in a murderer\u2019s acid bath, a collection of ropes used in almost a century of executions, and a tin of Andrews Liver Salts belonging to one of the Great Train Robbers, will go on public display for the first time with other artefacts from one of the world\u2019s most famous and least visited museums: the Black Museum of Scotland Yard.The museum itself, crammed into two rooms and some storage space at the headquarters of the Metropolitan police in London, will remain strictly off limits, as it has been since it was founded in 1875 \u2013 but the Museum of London will bring scores of its contents into the light for the first time in a major exhibition, The Crime Museum Uncovered, opening in the autumn.\u201cThe term silent witness is often bandied about, but these objects really are the witnesses to generations of crimes, and each has a story to tell,\u201d curator Jackie Keily said. \u201cWe want to use them not for voyeuristic thrills but to tell the very human stories, not just of the crimes, but of the detectives who investigated them, the victims and their families.\u201dMany of the objects she has selected are startling, such as a row of death masks of hanged men, which normally look down on visitors from a high shelf in the museum. They include Robert Marley, who was executed in 1856 for beating a jeweller to death in a shop 100 yards from the Palace of Westminster \u2013 and from the police headquarters.John Haigh, the Acid Bath Murderer, a serial killer convicted of six murders in the 1940s - though he claimed to have killed at least nine - is represented by a pair of long thick gloves, the gallstones and a smart red handbag once owned by a wealthy widow, Olive Durand-Deacon, who became his last victim. Haigh believed he had perfected a technique which put him beyond prosecution by dissolving his victims\u2019 bodies in a bath of sulphuric acid - but the sludge from the bath proved his undoing. Objects which survived to help hang him included the gallstones and the remains of a set of dentures.However some of the more notorious objects in the collection were rejected, including the stove and large cooking pots in which Dennis Nilsen boiled down body parts of young men at his London flat in the 1970s and 80s: he was eventually caught when a plumber was called to deal with blocked drains - it turned out the blockage was human flesh. Keily explained that the exhibition itself, and the objects chosen for display, were agreed following discussions with the Met curators, victims\u2019 representatives and London Policing Ethics Panel, an independent body which advises mayor Boris Johnson.Not only is Nilsen still alive, serving a life sentence, but it was never established how many men he actually killed. \u201cThere are still families with missing loved ones from around that period who must wonder if they fell victim to Nilsen,\u201d Keily said. \u201cWe felt it would be wholly inappropriate to display this material.\u201dAlthough the collection relating to murder is the most famous, the Museum of London will also cover terrorism, including bomb fragments from the attacks by Irish Fenians which appalled 19th-century London, drug smuggling, forgery, and a talcum powder tin adapted to conceal microfilm by a Russian spy ring. Cases famous in the history of detection include Alfred and Albert Ernest Stratton, brothers who became the first men convicted of murder by fingerprint evidence, from a bloody thumbprint in the unfortunate shopkeeper\u2019s cash box: the homemade masks they dropped at the scene will be in the exhibition.The museum, which was founded as a teaching tool in the early days of specialist training for detectives, has moved twice with the police force \u2013 and will have to move again when the Met moves out of the present New Scotland Yard block in Victoria.Properly known as the Crime Museum, it quickly became famous, and according to the Met was named the Black Museum by a disgruntled 19th-century Observer reporter who was refused admission. Police from all over the country have visited, but it has only been open to outsiders by invitation. The exhibition will include the visitors\u2019 book, where the signatures show the extraordinary assortment of people who did get in, including the creator of Sherlock Holmes, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, comic opera creators WS Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, the escapologist Harry Houdini, comedians Laurel and Hardy, King George V and many other members of the royal family.Some of the objects are dramatic, including a smart leather briefcase containing a syringe of poison with which the Kray twins intended to kill a witness before he could give evidence at the Old Bailey: it was never used. However, Keily finds some of the most everyday objects the most evocative. The personal possessions of Ronnie Biggs and other members of the Great Train Robbery gang were recovered by police from their hideout at Leatherslade Farm in Buckinghamshire, after they held up the Glasgow to London mail train in August 1963 and stole more than \u00a32.5m. They include a bottle of Old Spice aftershave and a tin of Andrews Liver Salts. \u201cThere was always a tin of liver salts in my family\u2019s bathroom and I suspect most others,\u201d Keily said. \u201cThat and the aftershave instantly bring back the atmosphere of the 1960s more vividly than any newspaper account of the period.\u201d", "tags": ["Museums", "Metropolitan police", "Culture", "London", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard's Black Museum to reveal its dark secrets"},{"date": "2015-01-25T06:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Difficulty ModerateDistance 2.5 miles/4kmTypical duration 2 hoursStart and finish Stac Pollaidh car park on the Achiltibuie roadMap OS Landranger 15Step-by-step details and maps ramblers.org.uk/stacNothing can quite prepare you for the stark beauty of Scotland\u2019s far north-west, and climbing Stac Pollaidh shows off this area at its very best, treating you to panoramic views over Britain\u2019s great wilderness. Other than a very steep climb to the ridge, the rewards far outweigh the effort, with relatively straightforward terrain to negotiate.Be prepared for a short, simple scramble to reach the ridge (easily manageable, just take extra care), from which you\u2019ll enjoy the kind of views that you\u2019d expect to have to climb for miles to experience \u2013 and you might even spot a golden eagle or red deer.Rising from a maze of small lochs and rocky outcrops, the mountains in this region possess a surreal quality that owes as much to the other-worldly emptiness of their surroundings as the suddenness with which they rise from them.Stac Pollaidh is a colossal ice-smoothed lump with a distinctive spiky-topped ridge. It has been of fascination to geologists for years. Consisting of chocolate-red sandstone, it rests on the Precambrian metamorphic bedrock of Lewisian Gneiss, formed 1,500 million years ago.As this is the most visited peak in the north-west Highlands, Stac Pollaidh saw a lot of erosion, its surface being worn away by the footsteps of the people who flocked here seeking the beautiful views. These days, the mountain has a constructed path, making the climb up much easier and helping with navigation too.This route heads up steadily, the final ascent is very steep, well worth the effort to reach the ridge. Gaze south and west and you\u2019ll be looking over Loch Lugainn to the Summer Isles in the mouth of Loch Broom. Look north and you\u2019ll see the staggeringly beautiful Inverpolly Nature Reserve and the peaks of Assynt beyond.Word of warning: the weather can deteriorate rapidly, making the path more difficult to follow, so be sure to check the forecast in advance and ensure you\u2019ve adequate clothing in case the weather does turn; it has caught out many-a walker.There\u2019s no pub or cafe in this remote location, but Am Fuaran is a gem of a bar, tucked away on the tip of the Coigach peninsula in Altandhu. Famed for its freshseafood, it\u2019s worth a short drive to enjoy the sunset over a quiet pint and a plate of local poached salmon or prawns.Scotbus 811 runs from Ullapool to Reiff, passing Stac Pollaidh car park. Unfortunately, the gap between the outward and return services doesn\u2019t always leave enough time to climb the mountain. Check the timetable at travelinescotland.com. By road, Stac Pollaidh is off the A835 from Ullapool.", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "United Kingdom holidays", "Highlands holidays", "Climbing holidays"], "title": "Great country walks: Stac Pollaidh, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-03-27T10:29:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The United Reformed Church (URC) of Scotland has committed to pull out its investments in fossil fuel companies. The resolution was passed with \u201coverwhelming support\u201d on Saturday at a meeting of their General Synod at the Scottish Police College in Fife. The synod contains 50 churches and is one of 13 synods representing 60,000 members in the URC in Great Britain.A spokesman for the synod says about 4% of its total portfolio is invested in oil, coal and gas companies, including Shell and Total. They have committed to divest from all such companies and to not make any future fossil fuel investments. Eco-Congregation Scotland, the environmental movement for Scottish churches, estimate that their current assets amount to \u00a370,000.On March 16 the Guardian began a campaign calling on the world\u2019s two largest charitable foundations \u2013 the Wellcome Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation \u2013 to divest from fossil fuels. The campaign, which has attracted more than 144,000 signatures, is part of a new climate change project introduced by editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger. There are several times more fossil fuel reserves in the ground than can be burned if the world is to reach international targets to keep global warming within a 2C rise and avoid catastrophic climate change. Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, has said that \u201cthe vast majority of reserves are unburnable\u201d which would mean that the assets of fossil fuel companies would become \u201cstranded\u201d or worthless.Reverend John Humphreys, moderator of the church\u2019s synod in Scotland, said: \u201cI\u2019m delighted that the synod has shown a clear commitment to ethical investment. They have taken affirmative action against climate change and put people and the planet at the heart of their decision making. We hope and pray that other churches will feel able to respond ethically to the growing threat of catastrophic climate change.\u201dThe URC joins a fast-growing divestment movement, begun by the global climate organisation 350.org. Since its beginning in 2010, more than 220 institutions have committed to divest including universities, pension funds and philanthropic foundations.The divestment campaign targeting the URC emerged from a small group of its members. They say it was prompted by a recommendation from the World Council of Churches, which ruled out fossil fuel investments in July 2014. The umbrella organisation represents half a billion Christians and 345 member churches worldwide.Mark Letcher, campaign co-ordinator for the faith-based divestment campaign at Bright Now, said the decision by the URC \u201cmarks a huge step forward for the UK church divestment campaign, which is gathering momentum as churches around the world disinvest. This decision demonstrates the church\u2019s commitment to lead the urgently needed transition away from fossil fuels. We call on other UK churches to follow them\u201d.The Church of England (C of E) has set up a group to take advice on climate change and investment and has been reviewing their strategy for 18 months.The diocese of Birmingham passed a motion on Sunday calling on the C of E to divest, following a similar motion passed by the Oxford diocese in November 2014. The C of E is due to report back later this year.\u2022 This article was amended on 29 March 2015. An earlier version said that the United Reformed Church of Scotland represented 1,472 churches. The Scottish synod represents 50 churches.", "tags": ["Fossil fuel divestment", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Religion", "Christianity", "Scotland", "UK news", "Climate change"], "title": "United Reformed Church of Scotland divests from fossil fuels"},{"date": "2015-03-25T17:14:49Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland is to ban smoking in cars with children, bringing it into line with England and Wales, where legislation has been introduced to protect young people from secondhand smoke.The Scottish government announced it would back the smoking prohibition (children in motor vehicles) (Scotland) bill, which has been put forward by the Liberal Democrat MSP Jim Hume.The bill, which it is hoped will receive royal assent before the next Holyrood elections in May 2016, covers all cars, although Hume acknowledged that discussions may take place about exempting convertibles when they have the roof fully down, to bring it into line with English laws.\u201cThis legislation will ensure that we can put a stop to the 60,000 journeys being made in Scotland each week where children are being exposed to dangerous secondhand smoke,\u201d he said. The bans in England and Wales come into effect in October.Secondhand smoke contains more than 4,000 chemicals, and exposure to it has been linked to chest infections, asthma and cot death in children.Welcoming the announcement, the chief executive of ASH Scotland, Sheila Duffy, said: \u201cWe are delighted that ministers have decided to support this important member\u2019s bill, which has the potential to protect thousands of our children from the dangers of breathing secondhand tobacco smoke.\u201dScotland was the first country in the UK to ban smoking in enclosed public places in 2005, and Scottish NHS boards will be required to ensure that their grounds are smoke-free by April. The SNP government pledged in 2013 to achieve a tobacco-free generation within 20 years, with less than 5% of the population choosing to smoke by the target date of 2034.", "tags": ["Smoking", "Society", "Children", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland to ban smoking in cars with children"},{"date": "2015-03-19T01:36:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A collection of gruesomely banal objects, including three gallstones which failed to dissolve in a murderer\u2019s acid bath, a collection of ropes used in almost a century of executions, and a tin of Andrews Liver Salts belonging to one of the Great Train Robbers, will go on public display for the first time with other artefacts from one of the world\u2019s most famous and least visited museums: the Black Museum of Scotland Yard.The museum itself, crammed into two rooms and some storage space at the headquarters of the Metropolitan police in London, will remain strictly off limits, as it has been since it was founded in 1875 \u2013 but the Museum of London will bring scores of its contents into the light for the first time in a major exhibition, The Crime Museum Uncovered, opening in the autumn.\u201cThe term silent witness is often bandied about, but these objects really are the witnesses to generations of crimes, and each has a story to tell,\u201d curator Jackie Keily said. \u201cWe want to use them not for voyeuristic thrills but to tell the very human stories, not just of the crimes, but of the detectives who investigated them, the victims and their families.\u201dMany of the objects she has selected are startling, such as a row of death masks of hanged men, which normally look down on visitors from a high shelf in the museum. They include Robert Marley, who was executed in 1856 for beating a jeweller to death in a shop 100 yards from the Palace of Westminster \u2013 and from the police headquarters.John Haigh, the Acid Bath Murderer, a serial killer convicted of six murders in the 1940s - though he claimed to have killed at least nine - is represented by a pair of long thick gloves, the gallstones and a smart red handbag once owned by a wealthy widow, Olive Durand-Deacon, who became his last victim. Haigh believed he had perfected a technique which put him beyond prosecution by dissolving his victims\u2019 bodies in a bath of sulphuric acid - but the sludge from the bath proved his undoing. Objects which survived to help hang him included the gallstones and the remains of a set of dentures.However some of the more notorious objects in the collection were rejected, including the stove and large cooking pots in which Dennis Nilsen boiled down body parts of young men at his London flat in the 1970s and 80s: he was eventually caught when a plumber was called to deal with blocked drains - it turned out the blockage was human flesh. Keily explained that the exhibition itself, and the objects chosen for display, were agreed following discussions with the Met curators, victims\u2019 representatives and London Policing Ethics Panel, an independent body which advises mayor Boris Johnson.Not only is Nilsen still alive, serving a life sentence, but it was never established how many men he actually killed. \u201cThere are still families with missing loved ones from around that period who must wonder if they fell victim to Nilsen,\u201d Keily said. \u201cWe felt it would be wholly inappropriate to display this material.\u201dAlthough the collection relating to murder is the most famous, the Museum of London will also cover terrorism, including bomb fragments from the attacks by Irish Fenians which appalled 19th-century London, drug smuggling, forgery, and a talcum powder tin adapted to conceal microfilm by a Russian spy ring. Cases famous in the history of detection include Alfred and Albert Ernest Stratton, brothers who became the first men convicted of murder by fingerprint evidence, from a bloody thumbprint in the unfortunate shopkeeper\u2019s cash box: the homemade masks they dropped at the scene will be in the exhibition.The museum, which was founded as a teaching tool in the early days of specialist training for detectives, has moved twice with the police force \u2013 and will have to move again when the Met moves out of the present New Scotland Yard block in Victoria.Properly known as the Crime Museum, it quickly became famous, and according to the Met was named the Black Museum by a disgruntled 19th-century Observer reporter who was refused admission. Police from all over the country have visited, but it has only been open to outsiders by invitation. The exhibition will include the visitors\u2019 book, where the signatures show the extraordinary assortment of people who did get in, including the creator of Sherlock Holmes, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, comic opera creators WS Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, the escapologist Harry Houdini, comedians Laurel and Hardy, King George V and many other members of the royal family.Some of the objects are dramatic, including a smart leather briefcase containing a syringe of poison with which the Kray twins intended to kill a witness before he could give evidence at the Old Bailey: it was never used. However, Keily finds some of the most everyday objects the most evocative. The personal possessions of Ronnie Biggs and other members of the Great Train Robbery gang were recovered by police from their hideout at Leatherslade Farm in Buckinghamshire, after they held up the Glasgow to London mail train in August 1963 and stole more than \u00a32.5m. They include a bottle of Old Spice aftershave and a tin of Andrews Liver Salts. \u201cThere was always a tin of liver salts in my family\u2019s bathroom and I suspect most others,\u201d Keily said. \u201cThat and the aftershave instantly bring back the atmosphere of the 1960s more vividly than any newspaper account of the period.\u201d", "tags": ["Museums", "Metropolitan police", "Culture", "London", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland Yard's Black Museum to reveal its dark secrets"},{"date": "2015-03-15T12:09:55Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Thousands of visitors are expected to flock to the north of Scotland and its outlying islands next week in order to enjoy some of the most complete views of the solar eclipse available in Europe.While the line of totality for the eclipse on Friday morning will not touch land anywhere across the UK, it will pass six miles to the north-west of the uninhabited island of Rockall, west of the Outer Hebrides. On the Isle of Lewis, coverage of the sun is predicted to reach 98%. Related: Solar eclipse 1999 - in pictures Shetland expects to be one of the darkest places in the country, with an eclipse of approximately 97%. Sumburgh lighthouse, at the southern tip of the Mainland, will be live-streaming images of the cosmic event to the Rosemount observatory in Cornwall, where a total eclipse was viewed in 1999.Dedicated solar eclipse cruises will be stopping off in Shetland and Orkney, with more than 2,500 passengers heading north to take advantage of the islands\u2019 dark skies and minimal light pollution.Aberdeen is expected to be the best venue on the UK mainland to watch the eclipse, with the total coverage of the sun expected to reach 94%. Torry Battery, east of the city and usually a location for dolphin spotting, is being recommended as the best place for viewing with its unspoilt views of the harbour and North Sea.Professor John Brown, Scotland\u2019s astronomer royal, urged all eclipse-watchers to take the necessary safety precautions but added: \u201cPeople think that there\u2019s something especially dangerous about the eclipse, but it\u2019s very silly to look at the sun at any time.\u201dBefore advances in telescope technology, Brown explained, eclipses offered rare opportunities to examine the rim of the moon or examine stars. \u201cIn terms of research forefronts, eclipses are less important these days, but people are still impressed that we can predict these events with such precision,\u201d he said.\u201cThe sky operates like clockwork. And it is still a magical thing to see the sun vanishing. The sky does some amazing things.\u201d", "tags": ["Solar eclipses", "Science", "Space", "Scotland", "Scotland holidays", "Travel", "UK news", "United Kingdom holidays"], "title": "Thousands expected in north Scotland to catch rare solar eclipse"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-24T23:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama) is Scotland's national conservatoire. Eight hundred and seventy-eight students from 49 countries enjoy a high-level conservatoire experience in the performance and production of music, dance and drama. RCS has close working relationships with BBC Scotland, the National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Ballet, Scottish Opera, the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and a range of companies both in and beyond Scotland.RCS offers specialist courses such as composition, classical and traditional music, jazz, opera, ballet, musical theatre, acting, digital film and TV, technical and production arts, and contemporary performance practice. It is strong in performance-based research.The alumni list is impressive: Alan Cumming, James McAvoy and David Tennant, for starters. Glasgow is a fun place to be a student, and opportunities for performance are ample.Fees\u00a31,820 for Scottish/EU full-time undergraduates and \u00a39,000 for rest of UK (RUK) full-time undergraduates for 2015-16.Bursaries/ScholarshipsOn an annual basis, RCS disburses circa \u00a31.3m in scholarships to incoming and continuing students on the basis of merit and financial need. As part of this total, RCS has established a specific fund for incoming rest of the UK students on a means-tested basis.AccommodationRCS aims to offer all first-year students a place in its contracted hall of residence, Liberty House, in the centre of Glasgow and within easy walking distance of RCS. Rooms are allocated on a first come, first served basis. Liberty House provides comfortable city-centre living; accommodation consists of en-suite study bedrooms sharing well-equipped kitchen and dining areas. The conservatoire is able to offer advice to students seeking accommodation in the private sector and subscribes to PAD, a database of properties available for let in the city. This database is operated by a number of higher education institutions in the city and may be accessed at accom.gla.ac.uk/pad. Contact welfare@rcs.ac.uk for further information.FacilitiesThe Malcolm Fraser-designed Speirs Locks Studios include dance spaces and spacious creative technical and design studios, plus a state-of-the-art sound-recording studio. The six professional performance venues stage more than 400 public performances a year by students, staff and visiting international artists.TransportEasily accessible from major approach roads. The airport is handy, as are the stations.ContactTel: 0141 332 4101Web: rcs.ac.ukEmail: musicadmissions@rcs.ac.uk / danceadmissions@rrcs.ac.uk / dramaadmissions@rcs.ac.ukAccommodation: libertyliving.co.uk", "tags": ["University guide", "Royal Conservatoire of Scotland", "Higher education", "Students", "Education"], "title": "University guide 2016: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-24T23:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama) is Scotland's national conservatoire. Eight hundred and seventy-eight students from 49 countries enjoy a high-level conservatoire experience in the performance and production of music, dance and drama. RCS has close working relationships with BBC Scotland, the National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Ballet, Scottish Opera, the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and a range of companies both in and beyond Scotland.RCS offers specialist courses such as composition, classical and traditional music, jazz, opera, ballet, musical theatre, acting, digital film and TV, technical and production arts, and contemporary performance practice. It is strong in performance-based research.The alumni list is impressive: Alan Cumming, James McAvoy and David Tennant, for starters. Glasgow is a fun place to be a student, and opportunities for performance are ample.Fees\u00a31,820 for Scottish/EU full-time undergraduates and \u00a39,000 for rest of UK (RUK) full-time undergraduates for 2015-16.Bursaries/ScholarshipsOn an annual basis, RCS disburses circa \u00a31.3m in scholarships to incoming and continuing students on the basis of merit and financial need. As part of this total, RCS has established a specific fund for incoming rest of the UK students on a means-tested basis.AccommodationRCS aims to offer all first-year students a place in its contracted hall of residence, Liberty House, in the centre of Glasgow and within easy walking distance of RCS. Rooms are allocated on a first come, first served basis. Liberty House provides comfortable city-centre living; accommodation consists of en-suite study bedrooms sharing well-equipped kitchen and dining areas. The conservatoire is able to offer advice to students seeking accommodation in the private sector and subscribes to PAD, a database of properties available for let in the city. This database is operated by a number of higher education institutions in the city and may be accessed at accom.gla.ac.uk/pad. Contact welfare@rcs.ac.uk for further information.FacilitiesThe Malcolm Fraser-designed Speirs Locks Studios include dance spaces and spacious creative technical and design studios, plus a state-of-the-art sound-recording studio. The six professional performance venues stage more than 400 public performances a year by students, staff and visiting international artists.TransportEasily accessible from major approach roads. The airport is handy, as are the stations.ContactTel: 0141 332 4101Web: rcs.ac.ukEmail: musicadmissions@rcs.ac.uk / danceadmissions@rrcs.ac.uk / dramaadmissions@rcs.ac.ukAccommodation: libertyliving.co.uk", "tags": ["University guide", "Royal Conservatoire of Scotland", "Higher education", "Students", "Education"], "title": "University guide 2016: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-10T15:45:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon was telling the truth when she said her campaign wasn\u2019t about winning independence. Scots, submerging the nation under an SNP flood, weren\u2019t seeking independence. They were doing it.In the course of a few years Scotland changed, grew up, liked what it saw in the mirror. Not just the yes voters in the September referendum. Many no voters felt empowered too. From such \u201cYes, we can!\u201d moments, there\u2019s no way back. Related: We, the Scottish people, cannot now be ignored | Nicola Sturgeon Glasgow went daft with \u201cyes city\u201d pride after the referendum, roaring as if it had just set up the Paris Commune. But last week, after an even more devastating rebellion that swept away all seven Labour MPs and half a century\u2019s power monopoly, Glasgow kept cool. \u201cSee us, this is what we do!\u201d And what they were doing, in the limited field of electoral choice, was independence.In these Scottish politics, the people\u00a0race ahead of their politicians \u2013 the SNP included. At the UK level, grave men and women debate constitutional options for problems that are already\u00a0solving themselves.First, \u201chow to save the union\u201d. But the 1707 union between England and Scotland is already dead. As a piece of architecture, it was abandoned in 1999, when the devolved Scottish parliament met. Rain blew in as slates fell off; pews were looted; and the Holyrood elections of 2007 and 2011 brought down more of the roof. Last week Alex Salmond said he heard the Scottish lion roaring. I heard the rumble as the union\u2019s floor gave way\u00a0and fell into the crypt.Today, what exists instead is a constantly changing, fluid set of relationships between London and Edinburgh, confused by feeble constitutional wheezes that arrive too late. \u201cSave the union!\u201d Why? In Scotland, there are still unionists who know why and will fight for it. But in England the \u201cwhy?\u201d question usually meets with baffled silence.The second \u201cgreat challenge\u201d which has begun to solve itself is EVEL \u2013 English votes for English laws. But Westminster is well on the way to becoming an English parliament anyway. As Michael Kenny writes in his book The Politics of English Nationhood, \u201cAs an unintended consequence of devolution \u2026 an increasingly Anglicised polity has quietly emerged as an incubus at the heart of the UK state \u2026 the Westminster parliament is gradually evolving into an English-focused one.\u201dLast Thursday crippled the Labour party as a parliamentary force. So the context in which Scottish MPs could force unwanted legislation on England has vanished. No more, Nicola Sturgeon\u2019s vision of a progressive alliance with Labour. SNP interventions on English legislation will be annoying to English chauvinists but usually ineffectual. And I think most Scots feel their MPs should not decide purely English issues. After all, before devolution they had 292 years\u2019 experience of English MPs outvoting the Scots on Scottish issues .So what is the SNP eruption into the House of Commons going to do with itself? The election programme, based on hope for a hung parliament, promised to reverse austerity. But now there\u2019s no balance of power to hold, no obvious way to resist five more years of Osborne cuts demolishing what\u2019s left of the welfare state and slashing public spending in ways that directly affect Scotland\u2019s budget. Sturgeon can make sure that \u201cScotland\u2019s voice will be heard\u201d. But not that it will be obeyed. In the 1980s Scotland\u2019s army of Labour MPs was unable to protect the country from Margaret Thatcher\u2019s onslaught against \u201csociety\u201d and the public interest. Back then the SNP cruelly called them \u201cthe feeble fifty\u201d. Now Salmond and his 55 comrades march on to on the same unfair battlefield. Can they do better?The best card Sturgeon holds is David Cameron\u2019s pride. He really does not want to \u201cgo down in history as the prime minister who lost Scotland\u201d. He lacks the satanic realism to grab permanent control of England by letting the Scots go. But, like most English politicians, he simply does not get Scotland. John Major thought the \u201cloopy\u201d devolution thing only arose because \u201cthe Scots feel\u00a0out of things up there; I really should go there more often\u201d. Michael (Lord) Forsyth, although Scottish enough to know better, persuaded himself that returning the Stone of Destiny would throw the Scots into a grateful coma. Scottish nationalism to Cameron is a disfiguring, un-British infection, which can be treated with dabs\u00a0of shiny ointment.So there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits ... but no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcastingSo there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits. Maybe even some right to foreign representation. (At last month\u2019s EU fisheries summit, Westminster refused to send the Scottish minister and dispatched an English Tory hereditary peer \u2013 \u201cLord Rupert\u201d Ponsonby \u2013 instead.) A constitutional convention to talk about federalism (a non-starter, because the English don\u2019t want to be split up into federal states)? But no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcasting \u2013 powers that really matter. Nothing approaching devo max or home rule: control of everything save foreign affairs and defence.And yet Cameron said on Friday that he would grant Scotland \u201cthe strongest devolved government anywhere in the world\u201d. Hard to know what he meant by that. No other country in the world has British-style devolution, in which the centre retains an absolute veto over the periphery. And the single most important devolution is not for governments to make.I mean the disconnection of political parties. What if Scottish Tories, Lib Dems and Labour reinvent their links with London headquarters, \u201cindependent allies\u201d rather than branch\u00a0offices? The Christian Social Union in Bavaria is a separate party, in a\u00a0stable alliance with Germany\u2019s Christian Democrats. The Scottish Tories played with such a scheme recently but rejected it. In this election campaign, Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy boasted briefly that he would take no orders from Labour in London. But the meaning of last week is that the SNP has been adopted as \u201cScotland\u2019s party\u201d, not least because it\u00a0has no strings to London. The battered survivors of Scotland\u2019s opposition must take that on board.If Scotland is already doing independence, next year\u2019s Holyrood elections matter even more than Thursday\u2019s. Should the party \u2013 if it can repeat last week\u2019s success under the Scottish proportional system \u2013 promise another independence referendum?This is a fateful moment for Sturgeon. Her nationalism is instrumental rather than existential: independence as the means to social justice and prosperity, not the end. Most people who voted yes thought the same way. But there are many passionate activists who don\u2019t. She knows she can\u2019t afford to lose a second referendum, so timing is everything. By May 2016 excitement about the approaching Europe referendum will be coming to the boil. Loud voices will be urging her to seize the chance: England will vote to leave the EU, Scotland to stay in, and at that point another independence vote could be won.The trouble is that the facts don\u2019t yet\u00a0fit. The English may reel back from\u00a0the brink of Brexit, while the Scots\u00a0are not dramatically more pro-EU\u00a0than their southern neighbours. And a big slice of those who gave Sturgeon this stunning vote last week are Scots who like the SNP\u2019s style but voted no to independence.But time, and steadily hardening Scottish self-confidence are on the SNP\u2019s side. By 2017, opinion may have\u00a0radicalised still further. Then a head-on collision over Europe might see those 56 men and women leave the\u00a0green benches, head back to Edinburgh, and proclaim a sovereign Scotland under the Saltire.That doesn\u2019t have to be a calamity. Many problems would vanish, replaced\u00a0by a friendly Scotland in a British confederation. England could start taking itself in hand, while Scotland is quietly doing independence already. Devolution didn\u2019t hurt, did it? So relax, England! You\u2019ll feel so much better when it\u2019s over.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Constitutional reform", "UK news"], "title": "For Scotland, independence day has already dawned | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-24T23:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama) is Scotland's national conservatoire. Eight hundred and seventy-eight students from 49 countries enjoy a high-level conservatoire experience in the performance and production of music, dance and drama. RCS has close working relationships with BBC Scotland, the National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Ballet, Scottish Opera, the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and a range of companies both in and beyond Scotland.RCS offers specialist courses such as composition, classical and traditional music, jazz, opera, ballet, musical theatre, acting, digital film and TV, technical and production arts, and contemporary performance practice. It is strong in performance-based research.The alumni list is impressive: Alan Cumming, James McAvoy and David Tennant, for starters. Glasgow is a fun place to be a student, and opportunities for performance are ample.Fees\u00a31,820 for Scottish/EU full-time undergraduates and \u00a39,000 for rest of UK (RUK) full-time undergraduates for 2015-16.Bursaries/ScholarshipsOn an annual basis, RCS disburses circa \u00a31.3m in scholarships to incoming and continuing students on the basis of merit and financial need. As part of this total, RCS has established a specific fund for incoming rest of the UK students on a means-tested basis.AccommodationRCS aims to offer all first-year students a place in its contracted hall of residence, Liberty House, in the centre of Glasgow and within easy walking distance of RCS. Rooms are allocated on a first come, first served basis. Liberty House provides comfortable city-centre living; accommodation consists of en-suite study bedrooms sharing well-equipped kitchen and dining areas. The conservatoire is able to offer advice to students seeking accommodation in the private sector and subscribes to PAD, a database of properties available for let in the city. This database is operated by a number of higher education institutions in the city and may be accessed at accom.gla.ac.uk/pad. Contact welfare@rcs.ac.uk for further information.FacilitiesThe Malcolm Fraser-designed Speirs Locks Studios include dance spaces and spacious creative technical and design studios, plus a state-of-the-art sound-recording studio. The six professional performance venues stage more than 400 public performances a year by students, staff and visiting international artists.TransportEasily accessible from major approach roads. The airport is handy, as are the stations.ContactTel: 0141 332 4101Web: rcs.ac.ukEmail: musicadmissions@rcs.ac.uk / danceadmissions@rrcs.ac.uk / dramaadmissions@rcs.ac.ukAccommodation: libertyliving.co.uk", "tags": ["University guide", "Royal Conservatoire of Scotland", "Higher education", "Students", "Education"], "title": "University guide 2016: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-10T15:45:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon was telling the truth when she said her campaign wasn\u2019t about winning independence. Scots, submerging the nation under an SNP flood, weren\u2019t seeking independence. They were doing it.In the course of a few years Scotland changed, grew up, liked what it saw in the mirror. Not just the yes voters in the September referendum. Many no voters felt empowered too. From such \u201cYes, we can!\u201d moments, there\u2019s no way back. Related: We, the Scottish people, cannot now be ignored | Nicola Sturgeon Glasgow went daft with \u201cyes city\u201d pride after the referendum, roaring as if it had just set up the Paris Commune. But last week, after an even more devastating rebellion that swept away all seven Labour MPs and half a century\u2019s power monopoly, Glasgow kept cool. \u201cSee us, this is what we do!\u201d And what they were doing, in the limited field of electoral choice, was independence.In these Scottish politics, the people\u00a0race ahead of their politicians \u2013 the SNP included. At the UK level, grave men and women debate constitutional options for problems that are already\u00a0solving themselves.First, \u201chow to save the union\u201d. But the 1707 union between England and Scotland is already dead. As a piece of architecture, it was abandoned in 1999, when the devolved Scottish parliament met. Rain blew in as slates fell off; pews were looted; and the Holyrood elections of 2007 and 2011 brought down more of the roof. Last week Alex Salmond said he heard the Scottish lion roaring. I heard the rumble as the union\u2019s floor gave way\u00a0and fell into the crypt.Today, what exists instead is a constantly changing, fluid set of relationships between London and Edinburgh, confused by feeble constitutional wheezes that arrive too late. \u201cSave the union!\u201d Why? In Scotland, there are still unionists who know why and will fight for it. But in England the \u201cwhy?\u201d question usually meets with baffled silence.The second \u201cgreat challenge\u201d which has begun to solve itself is EVEL \u2013 English votes for English laws. But Westminster is well on the way to becoming an English parliament anyway. As Michael Kenny writes in his book The Politics of English Nationhood, \u201cAs an unintended consequence of devolution \u2026 an increasingly Anglicised polity has quietly emerged as an incubus at the heart of the UK state \u2026 the Westminster parliament is gradually evolving into an English-focused one.\u201dLast Thursday crippled the Labour party as a parliamentary force. So the context in which Scottish MPs could force unwanted legislation on England has vanished. No more, Nicola Sturgeon\u2019s vision of a progressive alliance with Labour. SNP interventions on English legislation will be annoying to English chauvinists but usually ineffectual. And I think most Scots feel their MPs should not decide purely English issues. After all, before devolution they had 292 years\u2019 experience of English MPs outvoting the Scots on Scottish issues .So what is the SNP eruption into the House of Commons going to do with itself? The election programme, based on hope for a hung parliament, promised to reverse austerity. But now there\u2019s no balance of power to hold, no obvious way to resist five more years of Osborne cuts demolishing what\u2019s left of the welfare state and slashing public spending in ways that directly affect Scotland\u2019s budget. Sturgeon can make sure that \u201cScotland\u2019s voice will be heard\u201d. But not that it will be obeyed. In the 1980s Scotland\u2019s army of Labour MPs was unable to protect the country from Margaret Thatcher\u2019s onslaught against \u201csociety\u201d and the public interest. Back then the SNP cruelly called them \u201cthe feeble fifty\u201d. Now Salmond and his 55 comrades march on to on the same unfair battlefield. Can they do better?The best card Sturgeon holds is David Cameron\u2019s pride. He really does not want to \u201cgo down in history as the prime minister who lost Scotland\u201d. He lacks the satanic realism to grab permanent control of England by letting the Scots go. But, like most English politicians, he simply does not get Scotland. John Major thought the \u201cloopy\u201d devolution thing only arose because \u201cthe Scots feel\u00a0out of things up there; I really should go there more often\u201d. Michael (Lord) Forsyth, although Scottish enough to know better, persuaded himself that returning the Stone of Destiny would throw the Scots into a grateful coma. Scottish nationalism to Cameron is a disfiguring, un-British infection, which can be treated with dabs\u00a0of shiny ointment.So there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits ... but no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcastingSo there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits. Maybe even some right to foreign representation. (At last month\u2019s EU fisheries summit, Westminster refused to send the Scottish minister and dispatched an English Tory hereditary peer \u2013 \u201cLord Rupert\u201d Ponsonby \u2013 instead.) A constitutional convention to talk about federalism (a non-starter, because the English don\u2019t want to be split up into federal states)? But no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcasting \u2013 powers that really matter. Nothing approaching devo max or home rule: control of everything save foreign affairs and defence.And yet Cameron said on Friday that he would grant Scotland \u201cthe strongest devolved government anywhere in the world\u201d. Hard to know what he meant by that. No other country in the world has British-style devolution, in which the centre retains an absolute veto over the periphery. And the single most important devolution is not for governments to make.I mean the disconnection of political parties. What if Scottish Tories, Lib Dems and Labour reinvent their links with London headquarters, \u201cindependent allies\u201d rather than branch\u00a0offices? The Christian Social Union in Bavaria is a separate party, in a\u00a0stable alliance with Germany\u2019s Christian Democrats. The Scottish Tories played with such a scheme recently but rejected it. In this election campaign, Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy boasted briefly that he would take no orders from Labour in London. But the meaning of last week is that the SNP has been adopted as \u201cScotland\u2019s party\u201d, not least because it\u00a0has no strings to London. The battered survivors of Scotland\u2019s opposition must take that on board.If Scotland is already doing independence, next year\u2019s Holyrood elections matter even more than Thursday\u2019s. Should the party \u2013 if it can repeat last week\u2019s success under the Scottish proportional system \u2013 promise another independence referendum?This is a fateful moment for Sturgeon. Her nationalism is instrumental rather than existential: independence as the means to social justice and prosperity, not the end. Most people who voted yes thought the same way. But there are many passionate activists who don\u2019t. She knows she can\u2019t afford to lose a second referendum, so timing is everything. By May 2016 excitement about the approaching Europe referendum will be coming to the boil. Loud voices will be urging her to seize the chance: England will vote to leave the EU, Scotland to stay in, and at that point another independence vote could be won.The trouble is that the facts don\u2019t yet\u00a0fit. The English may reel back from\u00a0the brink of Brexit, while the Scots\u00a0are not dramatically more pro-EU\u00a0than their southern neighbours. And a big slice of those who gave Sturgeon this stunning vote last week are Scots who like the SNP\u2019s style but voted no to independence.But time, and steadily hardening Scottish self-confidence are on the SNP\u2019s side. By 2017, opinion may have\u00a0radicalised still further. Then a head-on collision over Europe might see those 56 men and women leave the\u00a0green benches, head back to Edinburgh, and proclaim a sovereign Scotland under the Saltire.That doesn\u2019t have to be a calamity. Many problems would vanish, replaced\u00a0by a friendly Scotland in a British confederation. England could start taking itself in hand, while Scotland is quietly doing independence already. Devolution didn\u2019t hurt, did it? So relax, England! You\u2019ll feel so much better when it\u2019s over.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Constitutional reform", "UK news"], "title": "For Scotland, independence day has already dawned | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2015-05-09T09:10:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We provide locations and co-produce shoots for film and photography throughout the UK. People come to us with an idea or the backdrop or style they want for a shoot, and we put a location forward. Our clients include Glenfiddich, BMW, Chanel, H&M, Elle US and Vanity Fair.It was my husband\u2019s. He\u2019s a photographer and has travelled to many amazing places for work. When we got married, he moved to Scotland and was staggered by its beauty. He thought there was potential for a Scottish production company that played on the advantages of the local landscape. I didn\u2019t have previous experience in the industry \u2013 I was an air stewardess for nine years before leaving work for four and a half years to look after my children, but I took a chance.The natural beauty of Scotland can be overwhelming at times, but most people are not aware of the huge variety we have to offer. Scotland is a small country, but there aren\u2019t many places in the world with so much diversity \u2013 rocky cliffs, stunning beaches, lush green plains, rolling hills, beautiful seascapes, amazing architecture and cities steeped in culture. All in the one place and bathed in a quality of light that is famous throughout the world. On top of that, we have some fantastic, modern architecture that can look like it\u2019s in LA or Cape Town.I really like one that we used in an American mid-west style shoot for Russian vogue. It\u2019s on the coast, 30 minutes south-east of Edinburgh and has amazing red sandstone rocks \u2013 not something that you\u2019d associate with Scotland.Everywhere I go I make notes on interesting backdrops. For example, some of our clients have an obsession with doors and steps so I always notice striking designs.Finding the time to do everything I want to do with it, while also looking after my family. But I\u2019m learning to slow down occasionally. Our first enquiry from Crew Clothing was definitely a breakthrough moment for me. It was the first time I felt we were properly in business and it was such a great feeling to know that people wanted to work with us. On a more personal level, I felt the business had taken a step forward when I realised I didn\u2019t need to oversee everything in the office on a daily basis. It was refreshing to witness every department working well together, and also independently, without me being there every step of the way. Undoubtedly our ever-growing client list \u2013 the calibre of global companies that we work with. I\u2019m also proud of developing the Location Scotland team, who are a truly talented and dedicated group of people.We opened a New York office last summer and plan to continue producing great film and photography work in Scotland in collaboration with our partners in New York. We want to promote Scotland as one of the most versatile locations for any global brand campaign or creative project.Another focus will be increasing our locations database and developing our expansion into other areas of the UK. We want to be in a position to say yes if a client asks for our services outside of Scotland.Think about what you really want for your business and write a short plan of how you are going to achieve your business dreams. Be prepared to put in the hours and make sure you have some fun along the way.Marie Owen is the owner and managing director of Location Scotland (LS)", "tags": ["Guardian Small Business Network", "Business", "Small business", "Entrepreneurs", "Film industry"], "title": "Small business in the spotlight ... Location Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-24T23:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama) is Scotland's national conservatoire. Eight hundred and seventy-eight students from 49 countries enjoy a high-level conservatoire experience in the performance and production of music, dance and drama. RCS has close working relationships with BBC Scotland, the National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Ballet, Scottish Opera, the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and a range of companies both in and beyond Scotland.RCS offers specialist courses such as composition, classical and traditional music, jazz, opera, ballet, musical theatre, acting, digital film and TV, technical and production arts, and contemporary performance practice. It is strong in performance-based research.The alumni list is impressive: Alan Cumming, James McAvoy and David Tennant, for starters. Glasgow is a fun place to be a student, and opportunities for performance are ample.Fees\u00a31,820 for Scottish/EU full-time undergraduates and \u00a39,000 for rest of UK (RUK) full-time undergraduates for 2015-16.Bursaries/ScholarshipsOn an annual basis, RCS disburses circa \u00a31.3m in scholarships to incoming and continuing students on the basis of merit and financial need. As part of this total, RCS has established a specific fund for incoming rest of the UK students on a means-tested basis.AccommodationRCS aims to offer all first-year students a place in its contracted hall of residence, Liberty House, in the centre of Glasgow and within easy walking distance of RCS. Rooms are allocated on a first come, first served basis. Liberty House provides comfortable city-centre living; accommodation consists of en-suite study bedrooms sharing well-equipped kitchen and dining areas. The conservatoire is able to offer advice to students seeking accommodation in the private sector and subscribes to PAD, a database of properties available for let in the city. This database is operated by a number of higher education institutions in the city and may be accessed at accom.gla.ac.uk/pad. Contact welfare@rcs.ac.uk for further information.FacilitiesThe Malcolm Fraser-designed Speirs Locks Studios include dance spaces and spacious creative technical and design studios, plus a state-of-the-art sound-recording studio. The six professional performance venues stage more than 400 public performances a year by students, staff and visiting international artists.TransportEasily accessible from major approach roads. The airport is handy, as are the stations.ContactTel: 0141 332 4101Web: rcs.ac.ukEmail: musicadmissions@rcs.ac.uk / danceadmissions@rrcs.ac.uk / dramaadmissions@rcs.ac.ukAccommodation: libertyliving.co.uk", "tags": ["University guide", "Royal Conservatoire of Scotland", "Higher education", "Students", "Education"], "title": "University guide 2016: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-10T15:45:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon was telling the truth when she said her campaign wasn\u2019t about winning independence. Scots, submerging the nation under an SNP flood, weren\u2019t seeking independence. They were doing it.In the course of a few years Scotland changed, grew up, liked what it saw in the mirror. Not just the yes voters in the September referendum. Many no voters felt empowered too. From such \u201cYes, we can!\u201d moments, there\u2019s no way back. Related: We, the Scottish people, cannot now be ignored | Nicola Sturgeon Glasgow went daft with \u201cyes city\u201d pride after the referendum, roaring as if it had just set up the Paris Commune. But last week, after an even more devastating rebellion that swept away all seven Labour MPs and half a century\u2019s power monopoly, Glasgow kept cool. \u201cSee us, this is what we do!\u201d And what they were doing, in the limited field of electoral choice, was independence.In these Scottish politics, the people\u00a0race ahead of their politicians \u2013 the SNP included. At the UK level, grave men and women debate constitutional options for problems that are already\u00a0solving themselves.First, \u201chow to save the union\u201d. But the 1707 union between England and Scotland is already dead. As a piece of architecture, it was abandoned in 1999, when the devolved Scottish parliament met. Rain blew in as slates fell off; pews were looted; and the Holyrood elections of 2007 and 2011 brought down more of the roof. Last week Alex Salmond said he heard the Scottish lion roaring. I heard the rumble as the union\u2019s floor gave way\u00a0and fell into the crypt.Today, what exists instead is a constantly changing, fluid set of relationships between London and Edinburgh, confused by feeble constitutional wheezes that arrive too late. \u201cSave the union!\u201d Why? In Scotland, there are still unionists who know why and will fight for it. But in England the \u201cwhy?\u201d question usually meets with baffled silence.The second \u201cgreat challenge\u201d which has begun to solve itself is EVEL \u2013 English votes for English laws. But Westminster is well on the way to becoming an English parliament anyway. As Michael Kenny writes in his book The Politics of English Nationhood, \u201cAs an unintended consequence of devolution \u2026 an increasingly Anglicised polity has quietly emerged as an incubus at the heart of the UK state \u2026 the Westminster parliament is gradually evolving into an English-focused one.\u201dLast Thursday crippled the Labour party as a parliamentary force. So the context in which Scottish MPs could force unwanted legislation on England has vanished. No more, Nicola Sturgeon\u2019s vision of a progressive alliance with Labour. SNP interventions on English legislation will be annoying to English chauvinists but usually ineffectual. And I think most Scots feel their MPs should not decide purely English issues. After all, before devolution they had 292 years\u2019 experience of English MPs outvoting the Scots on Scottish issues .So what is the SNP eruption into the House of Commons going to do with itself? The election programme, based on hope for a hung parliament, promised to reverse austerity. But now there\u2019s no balance of power to hold, no obvious way to resist five more years of Osborne cuts demolishing what\u2019s left of the welfare state and slashing public spending in ways that directly affect Scotland\u2019s budget. Sturgeon can make sure that \u201cScotland\u2019s voice will be heard\u201d. But not that it will be obeyed. In the 1980s Scotland\u2019s army of Labour MPs was unable to protect the country from Margaret Thatcher\u2019s onslaught against \u201csociety\u201d and the public interest. Back then the SNP cruelly called them \u201cthe feeble fifty\u201d. Now Salmond and his 55 comrades march on to on the same unfair battlefield. Can they do better?The best card Sturgeon holds is David Cameron\u2019s pride. He really does not want to \u201cgo down in history as the prime minister who lost Scotland\u201d. He lacks the satanic realism to grab permanent control of England by letting the Scots go. But, like most English politicians, he simply does not get Scotland. John Major thought the \u201cloopy\u201d devolution thing only arose because \u201cthe Scots feel\u00a0out of things up there; I really should go there more often\u201d. Michael (Lord) Forsyth, although Scottish enough to know better, persuaded himself that returning the Stone of Destiny would throw the Scots into a grateful coma. Scottish nationalism to Cameron is a disfiguring, un-British infection, which can be treated with dabs\u00a0of shiny ointment.So there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits ... but no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcastingSo there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits. Maybe even some right to foreign representation. (At last month\u2019s EU fisheries summit, Westminster refused to send the Scottish minister and dispatched an English Tory hereditary peer \u2013 \u201cLord Rupert\u201d Ponsonby \u2013 instead.) A constitutional convention to talk about federalism (a non-starter, because the English don\u2019t want to be split up into federal states)? But no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcasting \u2013 powers that really matter. Nothing approaching devo max or home rule: control of everything save foreign affairs and defence.And yet Cameron said on Friday that he would grant Scotland \u201cthe strongest devolved government anywhere in the world\u201d. Hard to know what he meant by that. No other country in the world has British-style devolution, in which the centre retains an absolute veto over the periphery. And the single most important devolution is not for governments to make.I mean the disconnection of political parties. What if Scottish Tories, Lib Dems and Labour reinvent their links with London headquarters, \u201cindependent allies\u201d rather than branch\u00a0offices? The Christian Social Union in Bavaria is a separate party, in a\u00a0stable alliance with Germany\u2019s Christian Democrats. The Scottish Tories played with such a scheme recently but rejected it. In this election campaign, Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy boasted briefly that he would take no orders from Labour in London. But the meaning of last week is that the SNP has been adopted as \u201cScotland\u2019s party\u201d, not least because it\u00a0has no strings to London. The battered survivors of Scotland\u2019s opposition must take that on board.If Scotland is already doing independence, next year\u2019s Holyrood elections matter even more than Thursday\u2019s. Should the party \u2013 if it can repeat last week\u2019s success under the Scottish proportional system \u2013 promise another independence referendum?This is a fateful moment for Sturgeon. Her nationalism is instrumental rather than existential: independence as the means to social justice and prosperity, not the end. Most people who voted yes thought the same way. But there are many passionate activists who don\u2019t. She knows she can\u2019t afford to lose a second referendum, so timing is everything. By May 2016 excitement about the approaching Europe referendum will be coming to the boil. Loud voices will be urging her to seize the chance: England will vote to leave the EU, Scotland to stay in, and at that point another independence vote could be won.The trouble is that the facts don\u2019t yet\u00a0fit. The English may reel back from\u00a0the brink of Brexit, while the Scots\u00a0are not dramatically more pro-EU\u00a0than their southern neighbours. And a big slice of those who gave Sturgeon this stunning vote last week are Scots who like the SNP\u2019s style but voted no to independence.But time, and steadily hardening Scottish self-confidence are on the SNP\u2019s side. By 2017, opinion may have\u00a0radicalised still further. Then a head-on collision over Europe might see those 56 men and women leave the\u00a0green benches, head back to Edinburgh, and proclaim a sovereign Scotland under the Saltire.That doesn\u2019t have to be a calamity. Many problems would vanish, replaced\u00a0by a friendly Scotland in a British confederation. England could start taking itself in hand, while Scotland is quietly doing independence already. Devolution didn\u2019t hurt, did it? So relax, England! You\u2019ll feel so much better when it\u2019s over.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Constitutional reform", "UK news"], "title": "For Scotland, independence day has already dawned | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2015-05-09T09:10:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We provide locations and co-produce shoots for film and photography throughout the UK. People come to us with an idea or the backdrop or style they want for a shoot, and we put a location forward. Our clients include Glenfiddich, BMW, Chanel, H&M, Elle US and Vanity Fair.It was my husband\u2019s. He\u2019s a photographer and has travelled to many amazing places for work. When we got married, he moved to Scotland and was staggered by its beauty. He thought there was potential for a Scottish production company that played on the advantages of the local landscape. I didn\u2019t have previous experience in the industry \u2013 I was an air stewardess for nine years before leaving work for four and a half years to look after my children, but I took a chance.The natural beauty of Scotland can be overwhelming at times, but most people are not aware of the huge variety we have to offer. Scotland is a small country, but there aren\u2019t many places in the world with so much diversity \u2013 rocky cliffs, stunning beaches, lush green plains, rolling hills, beautiful seascapes, amazing architecture and cities steeped in culture. All in the one place and bathed in a quality of light that is famous throughout the world. On top of that, we have some fantastic, modern architecture that can look like it\u2019s in LA or Cape Town.I really like one that we used in an American mid-west style shoot for Russian vogue. It\u2019s on the coast, 30 minutes south-east of Edinburgh and has amazing red sandstone rocks \u2013 not something that you\u2019d associate with Scotland.Everywhere I go I make notes on interesting backdrops. For example, some of our clients have an obsession with doors and steps so I always notice striking designs.Finding the time to do everything I want to do with it, while also looking after my family. But I\u2019m learning to slow down occasionally. Our first enquiry from Crew Clothing was definitely a breakthrough moment for me. It was the first time I felt we were properly in business and it was such a great feeling to know that people wanted to work with us. On a more personal level, I felt the business had taken a step forward when I realised I didn\u2019t need to oversee everything in the office on a daily basis. It was refreshing to witness every department working well together, and also independently, without me being there every step of the way. Undoubtedly our ever-growing client list \u2013 the calibre of global companies that we work with. I\u2019m also proud of developing the Location Scotland team, who are a truly talented and dedicated group of people.We opened a New York office last summer and plan to continue producing great film and photography work in Scotland in collaboration with our partners in New York. We want to promote Scotland as one of the most versatile locations for any global brand campaign or creative project.Another focus will be increasing our locations database and developing our expansion into other areas of the UK. We want to be in a position to say yes if a client asks for our services outside of Scotland.Think about what you really want for your business and write a short plan of how you are going to achieve your business dreams. Be prepared to put in the hours and make sure you have some fun along the way.Marie Owen is the owner and managing director of Location Scotland (LS)", "tags": ["Guardian Small Business Network", "Business", "Small business", "Entrepreneurs", "Film industry"], "title": "Small business in the spotlight ... Location Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-27T23:05:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The leader of the Scottish National party at Westminster has suggested that the people of Scotland could vote to leave the UK in a second independence referendum within five years if David Cameron fails to deliver on promises for greater devolution and imposes more austerity north of the border.In an interview with the Observer, Angus Robertson, who leads 56 SNP MPs in the House of Commons \u2013 in what is now the third largest party \u2013 said many politicians at Westminster had clearly failed to grasp the scale of the political change in Scotland. The Tory government, he claimed, was attempting to backtrack on promises, made before and after last year\u2019s independence referendum, to devolve more powers to Scotland while preparing an austerity budget that would also further inflame resentment. Some in the UK parliament, he said, seemed to be living in the vain hope that the SNP, and the pressure for independence, were temporary phenomena which would just \u201cgo away\u201d \u2013 something he insisted would not happen.The clearest sign of Westminster\u2019s failure to comprehend the SNP and the wishes of Scots, he said, was the content of the Scotland bill on devolving powers which, as currently drafted, failed to implement many of the recommendations of the Smith commission that Cameron had pledged to introduce in full. Signs of backtracking by the government were feeding resentment among the Scottish people, who felt increasingly that Westminster was ignoring their wishes and failing to take on board the lessons from the SNP landslide north of the border.Asked whether he believed there could be a second referendum and a Yes vote before the end of Cameron\u2019s second term, Robertson refused to rule out the possibility. \u201cI think that largely lies with David Cameron. He has to make a decision as to how he is going to approach governing Scotland with only one MP, having made a cast-iron promise and an undertaking to deliver on more powers for the Scottish parliament and the voters.\u201dHe added: \u201cDo I believe that in the future there will be further moves towards Scottish self-government? Yes, I do. Do I believe that there will in time be a growing desire in Scotland for independence? Yes, I do. Do I believe that in time there will be a referendum when the public wants it on independence and that there will be a Yes result? Yes, I do.\u201dRobertson insists his MPs are working constructively in parliament, but maintains the other parties are finding it impossible to accept the new force in their midst. \u201cWestminster is having to come to terms with a very changed position in the chamber, where the Liberal Democrats are hard to see or hear because there are so few of them and this massive cohort of SNP are shocking the system by turning up to debates and taking part and having views that parts of the political class at Westminster have never heard.\u201cImages are regularly tweeted in Scotland of the small number of Tories on one side [of the House of Commons]and a similarly small number of Labour MPs \u2013 and scores of SNP MPs filling up the benches of the third party. Our party has arrived here with a job to do and, boy, are they going to do it.\u201dThe SNP task was clear. \u201cWe were elected on a very well understood platform, standing up for Scottish interests to deliver the new powers that were promised to voters who voted both Yes and No in the referendum last year. We were elected on a strong mandate to oppose austerity, to resist the renewal of Trident, to represent our constituents. Unlike other parties, we have an extremely tangible north star.\u201dThe SNP says it fully respects the narrow No vote last year, and that it is up to the Scottish people to decide if and when they want another independence referendum, an option party leader Nicola Sturgeon has refused to fully close off. There has been speculation that plans for one could be included in some form in the SNP manifesto for the Holyrood elections next year.In the meantime the party is portraying the government and Westminster parties as serial betrayers. Robertson say that a cross-party report by the Scottish parliament, as well as analysis by the House of Commons Library, supports its view that the Scotland bill falls short of the recommendations made by the Smith commission, a claim the government strongly rejects.Cameron says the bill does implement the commission\u2019s recommendations and argues that the SNP is now backing off from its previous demands for full fiscal autonomy because it has realised it would be a bad deal for Scotland.On devolution, Robertson added: \u201cA promise was made and already we can see with the government\u2019s legislation in the Scotland bill that has been presented does not match the Smith commission that was agreed and does not match the commitment made by the PM that he would look seriously on the proposals from the Scottish government on further devolution, which is what the people of Scotland voted on at the general election.\u201dThe SNP says the bill fails to guarantee greater powers over welfare payments, and goes nowhere near delivering on Cameron\u2019s pledge for a redistribution of power that would be as \u201cclose to federalism as possible\u201d.Ahead of next month\u2019s budget, he said Scots would not take kindly to a package that imposed further cuts on them, in the form of \u00a312bn of welfare reductions. Plans for a proposed multibillion pound renovation of parliament \u2013 which the SNP believes will rekindle memories of the fiasco of a Scottish parliament building completed three years late and at 10 times the original budget \u2013 were also unacceptable.\u201cOf course one needs to make sure a public building can function for its purpose, but spending \u00a35bn, \u00a38bn, \u00a312bn on a renovation project I think is going to find very little favour with people who are about to be told their income is about to be cut very severely. There is hardly a bigger example of wrong priorities.\u201cThe more that the UK parties, having been humiliated in the general election, do not respect the voters who voted for the SNP in the general election \u2013 but not for independence \u2013 there will be a growing view in Scotland that political institutions are not in a position to understand or care enough to realise that change needs to happen.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Devolution", "David Cameron", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "SNP warns Scotland could still vote for independence"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-24T23:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama) is Scotland's national conservatoire. Eight hundred and seventy-eight students from 49 countries enjoy a high-level conservatoire experience in the performance and production of music, dance and drama. RCS has close working relationships with BBC Scotland, the National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Ballet, Scottish Opera, the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and a range of companies both in and beyond Scotland.RCS offers specialist courses such as composition, classical and traditional music, jazz, opera, ballet, musical theatre, acting, digital film and TV, technical and production arts, and contemporary performance practice. It is strong in performance-based research.The alumni list is impressive: Alan Cumming, James McAvoy and David Tennant, for starters. Glasgow is a fun place to be a student, and opportunities for performance are ample.Fees\u00a31,820 for Scottish/EU full-time undergraduates and \u00a39,000 for rest of UK (RUK) full-time undergraduates for 2015-16.Bursaries/ScholarshipsOn an annual basis, RCS disburses circa \u00a31.3m in scholarships to incoming and continuing students on the basis of merit and financial need. As part of this total, RCS has established a specific fund for incoming rest of the UK students on a means-tested basis.AccommodationRCS aims to offer all first-year students a place in its contracted hall of residence, Liberty House, in the centre of Glasgow and within easy walking distance of RCS. Rooms are allocated on a first come, first served basis. Liberty House provides comfortable city-centre living; accommodation consists of en-suite study bedrooms sharing well-equipped kitchen and dining areas. The conservatoire is able to offer advice to students seeking accommodation in the private sector and subscribes to PAD, a database of properties available for let in the city. This database is operated by a number of higher education institutions in the city and may be accessed at accom.gla.ac.uk/pad. Contact welfare@rcs.ac.uk for further information.FacilitiesThe Malcolm Fraser-designed Speirs Locks Studios include dance spaces and spacious creative technical and design studios, plus a state-of-the-art sound-recording studio. The six professional performance venues stage more than 400 public performances a year by students, staff and visiting international artists.TransportEasily accessible from major approach roads. The airport is handy, as are the stations.ContactTel: 0141 332 4101Web: rcs.ac.ukEmail: musicadmissions@rcs.ac.uk / danceadmissions@rrcs.ac.uk / dramaadmissions@rcs.ac.ukAccommodation: libertyliving.co.uk", "tags": ["University guide", "Royal Conservatoire of Scotland", "Higher education", "Students", "Education"], "title": "University guide 2016: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-10T15:45:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon was telling the truth when she said her campaign wasn\u2019t about winning independence. Scots, submerging the nation under an SNP flood, weren\u2019t seeking independence. They were doing it.In the course of a few years Scotland changed, grew up, liked what it saw in the mirror. Not just the yes voters in the September referendum. Many no voters felt empowered too. From such \u201cYes, we can!\u201d moments, there\u2019s no way back. Related: We, the Scottish people, cannot now be ignored | Nicola Sturgeon Glasgow went daft with \u201cyes city\u201d pride after the referendum, roaring as if it had just set up the Paris Commune. But last week, after an even more devastating rebellion that swept away all seven Labour MPs and half a century\u2019s power monopoly, Glasgow kept cool. \u201cSee us, this is what we do!\u201d And what they were doing, in the limited field of electoral choice, was independence.In these Scottish politics, the people\u00a0race ahead of their politicians \u2013 the SNP included. At the UK level, grave men and women debate constitutional options for problems that are already\u00a0solving themselves.First, \u201chow to save the union\u201d. But the 1707 union between England and Scotland is already dead. As a piece of architecture, it was abandoned in 1999, when the devolved Scottish parliament met. Rain blew in as slates fell off; pews were looted; and the Holyrood elections of 2007 and 2011 brought down more of the roof. Last week Alex Salmond said he heard the Scottish lion roaring. I heard the rumble as the union\u2019s floor gave way\u00a0and fell into the crypt.Today, what exists instead is a constantly changing, fluid set of relationships between London and Edinburgh, confused by feeble constitutional wheezes that arrive too late. \u201cSave the union!\u201d Why? In Scotland, there are still unionists who know why and will fight for it. But in England the \u201cwhy?\u201d question usually meets with baffled silence.The second \u201cgreat challenge\u201d which has begun to solve itself is EVEL \u2013 English votes for English laws. But Westminster is well on the way to becoming an English parliament anyway. As Michael Kenny writes in his book The Politics of English Nationhood, \u201cAs an unintended consequence of devolution \u2026 an increasingly Anglicised polity has quietly emerged as an incubus at the heart of the UK state \u2026 the Westminster parliament is gradually evolving into an English-focused one.\u201dLast Thursday crippled the Labour party as a parliamentary force. So the context in which Scottish MPs could force unwanted legislation on England has vanished. No more, Nicola Sturgeon\u2019s vision of a progressive alliance with Labour. SNP interventions on English legislation will be annoying to English chauvinists but usually ineffectual. And I think most Scots feel their MPs should not decide purely English issues. After all, before devolution they had 292 years\u2019 experience of English MPs outvoting the Scots on Scottish issues .So what is the SNP eruption into the House of Commons going to do with itself? The election programme, based on hope for a hung parliament, promised to reverse austerity. But now there\u2019s no balance of power to hold, no obvious way to resist five more years of Osborne cuts demolishing what\u2019s left of the welfare state and slashing public spending in ways that directly affect Scotland\u2019s budget. Sturgeon can make sure that \u201cScotland\u2019s voice will be heard\u201d. But not that it will be obeyed. In the 1980s Scotland\u2019s army of Labour MPs was unable to protect the country from Margaret Thatcher\u2019s onslaught against \u201csociety\u201d and the public interest. Back then the SNP cruelly called them \u201cthe feeble fifty\u201d. Now Salmond and his 55 comrades march on to on the same unfair battlefield. Can they do better?The best card Sturgeon holds is David Cameron\u2019s pride. He really does not want to \u201cgo down in history as the prime minister who lost Scotland\u201d. He lacks the satanic realism to grab permanent control of England by letting the Scots go. But, like most English politicians, he simply does not get Scotland. John Major thought the \u201cloopy\u201d devolution thing only arose because \u201cthe Scots feel\u00a0out of things up there; I really should go there more often\u201d. Michael (Lord) Forsyth, although Scottish enough to know better, persuaded himself that returning the Stone of Destiny would throw the Scots into a grateful coma. Scottish nationalism to Cameron is a disfiguring, un-British infection, which can be treated with dabs\u00a0of shiny ointment.So there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits ... but no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcastingSo there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits. Maybe even some right to foreign representation. (At last month\u2019s EU fisheries summit, Westminster refused to send the Scottish minister and dispatched an English Tory hereditary peer \u2013 \u201cLord Rupert\u201d Ponsonby \u2013 instead.) A constitutional convention to talk about federalism (a non-starter, because the English don\u2019t want to be split up into federal states)? But no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcasting \u2013 powers that really matter. Nothing approaching devo max or home rule: control of everything save foreign affairs and defence.And yet Cameron said on Friday that he would grant Scotland \u201cthe strongest devolved government anywhere in the world\u201d. Hard to know what he meant by that. No other country in the world has British-style devolution, in which the centre retains an absolute veto over the periphery. And the single most important devolution is not for governments to make.I mean the disconnection of political parties. What if Scottish Tories, Lib Dems and Labour reinvent their links with London headquarters, \u201cindependent allies\u201d rather than branch\u00a0offices? The Christian Social Union in Bavaria is a separate party, in a\u00a0stable alliance with Germany\u2019s Christian Democrats. The Scottish Tories played with such a scheme recently but rejected it. In this election campaign, Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy boasted briefly that he would take no orders from Labour in London. But the meaning of last week is that the SNP has been adopted as \u201cScotland\u2019s party\u201d, not least because it\u00a0has no strings to London. The battered survivors of Scotland\u2019s opposition must take that on board.If Scotland is already doing independence, next year\u2019s Holyrood elections matter even more than Thursday\u2019s. Should the party \u2013 if it can repeat last week\u2019s success under the Scottish proportional system \u2013 promise another independence referendum?This is a fateful moment for Sturgeon. Her nationalism is instrumental rather than existential: independence as the means to social justice and prosperity, not the end. Most people who voted yes thought the same way. But there are many passionate activists who don\u2019t. She knows she can\u2019t afford to lose a second referendum, so timing is everything. By May 2016 excitement about the approaching Europe referendum will be coming to the boil. Loud voices will be urging her to seize the chance: England will vote to leave the EU, Scotland to stay in, and at that point another independence vote could be won.The trouble is that the facts don\u2019t yet\u00a0fit. The English may reel back from\u00a0the brink of Brexit, while the Scots\u00a0are not dramatically more pro-EU\u00a0than their southern neighbours. And a big slice of those who gave Sturgeon this stunning vote last week are Scots who like the SNP\u2019s style but voted no to independence.But time, and steadily hardening Scottish self-confidence are on the SNP\u2019s side. By 2017, opinion may have\u00a0radicalised still further. Then a head-on collision over Europe might see those 56 men and women leave the\u00a0green benches, head back to Edinburgh, and proclaim a sovereign Scotland under the Saltire.That doesn\u2019t have to be a calamity. Many problems would vanish, replaced\u00a0by a friendly Scotland in a British confederation. England could start taking itself in hand, while Scotland is quietly doing independence already. Devolution didn\u2019t hurt, did it? So relax, England! You\u2019ll feel so much better when it\u2019s over.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Constitutional reform", "UK news"], "title": "For Scotland, independence day has already dawned | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2015-05-09T09:10:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We provide locations and co-produce shoots for film and photography throughout the UK. People come to us with an idea or the backdrop or style they want for a shoot, and we put a location forward. Our clients include Glenfiddich, BMW, Chanel, H&M, Elle US and Vanity Fair.It was my husband\u2019s. He\u2019s a photographer and has travelled to many amazing places for work. When we got married, he moved to Scotland and was staggered by its beauty. He thought there was potential for a Scottish production company that played on the advantages of the local landscape. I didn\u2019t have previous experience in the industry \u2013 I was an air stewardess for nine years before leaving work for four and a half years to look after my children, but I took a chance.The natural beauty of Scotland can be overwhelming at times, but most people are not aware of the huge variety we have to offer. Scotland is a small country, but there aren\u2019t many places in the world with so much diversity \u2013 rocky cliffs, stunning beaches, lush green plains, rolling hills, beautiful seascapes, amazing architecture and cities steeped in culture. All in the one place and bathed in a quality of light that is famous throughout the world. On top of that, we have some fantastic, modern architecture that can look like it\u2019s in LA or Cape Town.I really like one that we used in an American mid-west style shoot for Russian vogue. It\u2019s on the coast, 30 minutes south-east of Edinburgh and has amazing red sandstone rocks \u2013 not something that you\u2019d associate with Scotland.Everywhere I go I make notes on interesting backdrops. For example, some of our clients have an obsession with doors and steps so I always notice striking designs.Finding the time to do everything I want to do with it, while also looking after my family. But I\u2019m learning to slow down occasionally. Our first enquiry from Crew Clothing was definitely a breakthrough moment for me. It was the first time I felt we were properly in business and it was such a great feeling to know that people wanted to work with us. On a more personal level, I felt the business had taken a step forward when I realised I didn\u2019t need to oversee everything in the office on a daily basis. It was refreshing to witness every department working well together, and also independently, without me being there every step of the way. Undoubtedly our ever-growing client list \u2013 the calibre of global companies that we work with. I\u2019m also proud of developing the Location Scotland team, who are a truly talented and dedicated group of people.We opened a New York office last summer and plan to continue producing great film and photography work in Scotland in collaboration with our partners in New York. We want to promote Scotland as one of the most versatile locations for any global brand campaign or creative project.Another focus will be increasing our locations database and developing our expansion into other areas of the UK. We want to be in a position to say yes if a client asks for our services outside of Scotland.Think about what you really want for your business and write a short plan of how you are going to achieve your business dreams. Be prepared to put in the hours and make sure you have some fun along the way.Marie Owen is the owner and managing director of Location Scotland (LS)", "tags": ["Guardian Small Business Network", "Business", "Small business", "Entrepreneurs", "Film industry"], "title": "Small business in the spotlight ... Location Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-27T23:05:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The leader of the Scottish National party at Westminster has suggested that the people of Scotland could vote to leave the UK in a second independence referendum within five years if David Cameron fails to deliver on promises for greater devolution and imposes more austerity north of the border.In an interview with the Observer, Angus Robertson, who leads 56 SNP MPs in the House of Commons \u2013 in what is now the third largest party \u2013 said many politicians at Westminster had clearly failed to grasp the scale of the political change in Scotland. The Tory government, he claimed, was attempting to backtrack on promises, made before and after last year\u2019s independence referendum, to devolve more powers to Scotland while preparing an austerity budget that would also further inflame resentment. Some in the UK parliament, he said, seemed to be living in the vain hope that the SNP, and the pressure for independence, were temporary phenomena which would just \u201cgo away\u201d \u2013 something he insisted would not happen.The clearest sign of Westminster\u2019s failure to comprehend the SNP and the wishes of Scots, he said, was the content of the Scotland bill on devolving powers which, as currently drafted, failed to implement many of the recommendations of the Smith commission that Cameron had pledged to introduce in full. Signs of backtracking by the government were feeding resentment among the Scottish people, who felt increasingly that Westminster was ignoring their wishes and failing to take on board the lessons from the SNP landslide north of the border.Asked whether he believed there could be a second referendum and a Yes vote before the end of Cameron\u2019s second term, Robertson refused to rule out the possibility. \u201cI think that largely lies with David Cameron. He has to make a decision as to how he is going to approach governing Scotland with only one MP, having made a cast-iron promise and an undertaking to deliver on more powers for the Scottish parliament and the voters.\u201dHe added: \u201cDo I believe that in the future there will be further moves towards Scottish self-government? Yes, I do. Do I believe that there will in time be a growing desire in Scotland for independence? Yes, I do. Do I believe that in time there will be a referendum when the public wants it on independence and that there will be a Yes result? Yes, I do.\u201dRobertson insists his MPs are working constructively in parliament, but maintains the other parties are finding it impossible to accept the new force in their midst. \u201cWestminster is having to come to terms with a very changed position in the chamber, where the Liberal Democrats are hard to see or hear because there are so few of them and this massive cohort of SNP are shocking the system by turning up to debates and taking part and having views that parts of the political class at Westminster have never heard.\u201cImages are regularly tweeted in Scotland of the small number of Tories on one side [of the House of Commons]and a similarly small number of Labour MPs \u2013 and scores of SNP MPs filling up the benches of the third party. Our party has arrived here with a job to do and, boy, are they going to do it.\u201dThe SNP task was clear. \u201cWe were elected on a very well understood platform, standing up for Scottish interests to deliver the new powers that were promised to voters who voted both Yes and No in the referendum last year. We were elected on a strong mandate to oppose austerity, to resist the renewal of Trident, to represent our constituents. Unlike other parties, we have an extremely tangible north star.\u201dThe SNP says it fully respects the narrow No vote last year, and that it is up to the Scottish people to decide if and when they want another independence referendum, an option party leader Nicola Sturgeon has refused to fully close off. There has been speculation that plans for one could be included in some form in the SNP manifesto for the Holyrood elections next year.In the meantime the party is portraying the government and Westminster parties as serial betrayers. Robertson say that a cross-party report by the Scottish parliament, as well as analysis by the House of Commons Library, supports its view that the Scotland bill falls short of the recommendations made by the Smith commission, a claim the government strongly rejects.Cameron says the bill does implement the commission\u2019s recommendations and argues that the SNP is now backing off from its previous demands for full fiscal autonomy because it has realised it would be a bad deal for Scotland.On devolution, Robertson added: \u201cA promise was made and already we can see with the government\u2019s legislation in the Scotland bill that has been presented does not match the Smith commission that was agreed and does not match the commitment made by the PM that he would look seriously on the proposals from the Scottish government on further devolution, which is what the people of Scotland voted on at the general election.\u201dThe SNP says the bill fails to guarantee greater powers over welfare payments, and goes nowhere near delivering on Cameron\u2019s pledge for a redistribution of power that would be as \u201cclose to federalism as possible\u201d.Ahead of next month\u2019s budget, he said Scots would not take kindly to a package that imposed further cuts on them, in the form of \u00a312bn of welfare reductions. Plans for a proposed multibillion pound renovation of parliament \u2013 which the SNP believes will rekindle memories of the fiasco of a Scottish parliament building completed three years late and at 10 times the original budget \u2013 were also unacceptable.\u201cOf course one needs to make sure a public building can function for its purpose, but spending \u00a35bn, \u00a38bn, \u00a312bn on a renovation project I think is going to find very little favour with people who are about to be told their income is about to be cut very severely. There is hardly a bigger example of wrong priorities.\u201cThe more that the UK parties, having been humiliated in the general election, do not respect the voters who voted for the SNP in the general election \u2013 but not for independence \u2013 there will be a growing view in Scotland that political institutions are not in a position to understand or care enough to realise that change needs to happen.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Devolution", "David Cameron", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "SNP warns Scotland could still vote for independence"},{"date": "2015-06-24T10:45:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Queen is a bit like a Bismarckian sausage. Everyone, well almost everyone, loves the product, but the manufacturing process really doesn\u2019t bear examination. Yesterday, the Palace fleetingly revealed a glimpse of the substructure of the monarchy, and more specifically the extraordinary assets held in the monarch\u2019s name from which she derives her income. It was a dazzling masterclass in democratic charades.The crown estate turns out to mean your favourite beach, a great many offshore wind turbines and a McDonald\u2019s, along with oh, Australia, Canada and some other smaller nooks and crannies of the empire. They don\u2019t contribute much rent, but they do give her a bit of a party when she visits. Most of the revenue from this vast portfolio goes to the Treasury, in a deal agreed only four years ago, and which is up for renewal next year. That could vary the percentage of the profits of the crown estate (see above) from the current 15%. Related: Scotland decides to stop funding Queen via Scottish crown estate The suggestion that an elderly couple will have to move out or live with a leaking roof and useless central heating is tear-jerking stuff, although in the bigger picture less so, particularly in the context of a) the bedroom tax, b) government plans to redefine poverty, and c) an annual income of \u00a335m. Also the elderly couple in question can choose any one of their other four palaces: Holyroodhouse, Windsor Castle, St James\u2019s Palace, Clarence House and Kensington Palace. Several of them, Londoners will realise, are close by Buckingham Palace. But that is a cheap and predictable political jibe. There is a much more serious point to all of this.Buckingham Palace is splendid. That is what it is for. It has a magnificent approach, off Trafalgar Square and through Admiralty Arch along the Mall, a mile-long processional avenue \u2013 the perfect setting for the rich panoply of monarchy. The vista is only interrupted by the Victoria Memorial, erected in 1913 to perpetuate an image of imperial majesty that made George Bernard Shaw blush, and \u201clong for a trip in a bombing aeroplane\u201d. This was less because of any republican sympathies than because he thought it, like most other statues of the queen-empress, a terrible misrepresentation of a small but stylish lady.It became a royal palace in the early 19th century. Not a great time for the idea of monarchy, or at least not until after 1815. By the 1800s, what had started in the 1790s as a piece of run-of-the-mill royal extravagance, had been converted into a handy weapon in the propaganda campaign to entrench established power. Nothing new in that, except that of all the surviving monarchies in the world, only in Britain does the royal family still occupy so completely the dominant royal building of the capital.Just ponder, for a moment, the strange synergy of architectural decay. Last week the Palace of Westminster, this week Buckingham Palace, probably the most globally recognised architectural symbols of the United Kingdom. Both were designed and built in the first part of the 19th century with a very clear sense that they needed to be the physical expression of a power that was not necessarily quite as securely founded as the palaces\u2019 architects were instructed to suggest.They were built in revolutionary times to represent an unbreachable continuity. They were bulwarks against change then, and now, 200 years later, they continue to represent institutions that have not changed enough.The real story out of yesterday\u2019s factory tour is not that the machinery needs upgrading, but that there is one part of the realm (see the royal website for a helpful answer to the question, \u201cwhat is a realm?\u201d) that has had a brilliant idea about the next step. Scotland.As a PR-savvy royal aide said yesterday, legislation now going through parliament will give the SNP management of royal assets in Scotland. That means it could, in theory, hold on to all the profits. At yesterday\u2019s briefing Sir Alan Reid, keeper of the privy purse, suggested that this meant there could be a \u201ccomplication\u201d over future funding.The SNP has been bounced by this revelation into insisting it has no intention of cutting off its share of the sovereign grant, which funds the royal household. The Queen is safe in their hands. That\u2019s fine. The point is that if it wanted to, and if Scottish voters wanted to, then it could.If Scotland can do it, why should the rest of the UK not have the same power? Using it would be an entirely democratic choice. It\u2019s no more likely to happen any time soon than it is that Her Majesty pops out to Tesco for sausages. But it would feel good to have the choice.", "tags": ["The Queen", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Scotland"], "title": "Scotland has the right approach to the Queen\u2019s sausage factory | Anne Perkins"},{"date": "2015-05-26T05:00:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Running until 31 May, Perth Festival of the Arts features art trails, pop-up opera and ceilidhs, plus big names such as the Proclaimers, Jools Holland and King Creosote.Take a tour of Inveralmond Brewery, visit the Fergusson Gallery in an old water tower to see work by Scottish colourists including John Duncan Fergusson. Branklyn Garden on the edge of the city has unusual plants from China, Tibet and Bhutan. Nearby Scone Palace is where Macbeth, Robert the Bruce and Charles II were crowned.On the High Street, Reid\u2019s Cafe does a mean breakfast with smoked Perthshire bacon, and lovely strawberry tarts. Near the concert hall, tiny North Port restaurant uses ingredients from local growers, breeders and foragers, such as Black Isle beef brisket. There\u2019s more modern Scottish food round the corner at the Post Box, including lamb with Shetland black potatoes and sweetbreads. For fine dining, try 63 Tay Street and sister restaurant 63@Parklands.Greyfriars Bar claims to be the smallest pub in Perth and has well-kept real ale. Dickens Bar, further up South Street, has more than 120 malt whiskies, and serves soup and a sandwich for \u00a33.95 until closing time. The Green Room, a short walk away, provides live music, comedy, a roaring fire \u2013 and free crisps!Hotels in Perth are generally expensive, but the Townhouse , a boutique B&B in a Georgian terrace overlooking South Inch Park, has comfortable doubles from \u00a380.There are direct trains to Perth from major cities in Scotland, and from Newcastle, York and London, including the Caledonian Sleeper, which arrives at 6am. Perth, which regained city status in 2012, is small enough to be explored on foot. More information at visitscotland.com.", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Perth, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-21T20:30:17Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Tea plantations usually conjure up images of steamy hillside estates in India or China, but Scotland now has its own tea farm nestled in the Highland hills of Perth and Kinross. The Wee Tea plantation in Amulree may be thousands of miles from Assam or Darjeeling, but the growing conditions are surprisingly good for tea.Despite its reputation for growing in a balmy climate, the tea plant, Camellia sinensis, can survive temperatures as low as -11C for long periods. And with plenty of rain, good soil and altitude, the Wee Tea plantation is so successful that this year it won the world\u2019s most prestigious tea award, the Salon du Th\u00e9 in Paris, and has inspired a number of other Scottish growers to start their own plantations.To be honest, Scotland is different from the usual tea-growing regions of the world. For example, Darjeeling lies in the foothills of the Himalayas at around 2,000 metres (6,500ft) high and basks in a largely mild climate. The annual 3,037mm (120in) of rainfall largely comes during the summer monsoon, it is humid and the annual maximum temperature averages 14.7C.Dalreoch Farm, at only 750 metres (2,460ft) high, is slightly cooler and has a mere 917mm (36in) of annual rainfall, although the rains tend to fall 147 days each year and there\u2019s also spring water to keep the ground wet. In fact, growing tea in the UK is not a new idea \u2013 Winston Churchill wanted homegrown tea plantations as part of the \u201cDig for Victory\u201d campaign in the second world war, but he was advised it would take too long to grow the plants.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Tea", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Tea \u2013 a new national drink for Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-06-04T12:43:38Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Scottish energy minister has called for an \u201cadult discussion\u201d with the UK government over the future of windfarm subsidies, after writing to Amber Rudd to express his concern that Scotland is being shut out of discussions.In his letter to the secretary of state for energy and climate change, Fergus Ewing wrote: \u201cWe have not received any information from your department on the possible options you are considering or what analysis has been done to assess the impact on projects in Scotland. \u201cGiven the importance of the renewables sector to Scotland and prior commitments to consult, I would appreciate your reassurance that you will not make any changes to the subsidy arrangements for onshore wind without agreement from Scottish ministers.\u201dOn Monday, the Guardian reported that the Department of Energy and Climate Change was planning to announce that the existing subsidy scheme for onshore wind power will be closed a year earlier than it was due to, as the renewable energy industry warned the move could face legal challenge. Related: UK renewable energy industry warns of legal action over subsidies Asked about the issue at Thursday\u2019s first minister\u2019s questions, Nicola Sturgeon told the Holyrood chamber that it was \u201cvery concerning that changes are coming out in a piecemeal way via the media rather than with proper consultation with this government\u201d. She urged the UK government \u201cnot to turn its back on this key industry\u201d.The letter continued: \u201cFurthermore and given the obvious disquiet within the sector I strongly urge that your department engage with businesses involved in the sector and their trade bodies \u2013 both to give them reassurance that any changes to the subsidy regime are being taken forward in a considered and planned way, but also to ensure that your department retains good faith with these businesses and organisations who are integral to the future energy security of both the UK and Scotland.\u201dSpeaking on Radio Scotland\u2019s Good Morning Scotland programme on Thursday, Ewing insisted: \u201cWe are not seeking a row ... but we think there should be an adult discussion.\u201cWe don\u2019t know what [the UK government] are talking about because they haven\u2019t made it clear at all and that is why many people in Scottish renewables are extremely worried that planned investment, and money sunk and spent may prove to be wasted and that exposes the British taxpayer to judicial review challenge in the courts.\u201dEwing added: \u201cWith 71% support for onshore wind in Scotland and support for the Conservatives at 13%, green energy is five times more popular than blue politicians.\u201dThe UK government pledged in last week\u2019s Queen\u2019s speech to consult with the devolved administrations on any changes to subsidies for onshore wind farms.Lang Banks, director of WWF Scotland said the Scottish government was right to press for clarity. \u201cCutting support for the lowest cost renewable technology would be a backward step that will either see bills rise or climate targets missed. \u201cOpinion polls consistently show onshore wind to be one of the most popular forms of electricity, generating thousands of jobs across Scotland and helping to cut our carbon emissions.\u201dA Decc spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019ve made it clear that we plan to consult the devolved administrations as we implement the manifesto commitment to end new public subsidy for onshore wind projects.\u201d", "tags": ["Wind power", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Scotland", "UK news", "Green politics", "Politics", "Scottish politics"], "title": "Scotland calls for consultation over windfarm subsidies"},{"date": "2015-05-24T23:55:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama) is Scotland's national conservatoire. Eight hundred and seventy-eight students from 49 countries enjoy a high-level conservatoire experience in the performance and production of music, dance and drama. RCS has close working relationships with BBC Scotland, the National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Ballet, Scottish Opera, the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and a range of companies both in and beyond Scotland.RCS offers specialist courses such as composition, classical and traditional music, jazz, opera, ballet, musical theatre, acting, digital film and TV, technical and production arts, and contemporary performance practice. It is strong in performance-based research.The alumni list is impressive: Alan Cumming, James McAvoy and David Tennant, for starters. Glasgow is a fun place to be a student, and opportunities for performance are ample.Fees\u00a31,820 for Scottish/EU full-time undergraduates and \u00a39,000 for rest of UK (RUK) full-time undergraduates for 2015-16.Bursaries/ScholarshipsOn an annual basis, RCS disburses circa \u00a31.3m in scholarships to incoming and continuing students on the basis of merit and financial need. As part of this total, RCS has established a specific fund for incoming rest of the UK students on a means-tested basis.AccommodationRCS aims to offer all first-year students a place in its contracted hall of residence, Liberty House, in the centre of Glasgow and within easy walking distance of RCS. Rooms are allocated on a first come, first served basis. Liberty House provides comfortable city-centre living; accommodation consists of en-suite study bedrooms sharing well-equipped kitchen and dining areas. The conservatoire is able to offer advice to students seeking accommodation in the private sector and subscribes to PAD, a database of properties available for let in the city. This database is operated by a number of higher education institutions in the city and may be accessed at accom.gla.ac.uk/pad. Contact welfare@rcs.ac.uk for further information.FacilitiesThe Malcolm Fraser-designed Speirs Locks Studios include dance spaces and spacious creative technical and design studios, plus a state-of-the-art sound-recording studio. The six professional performance venues stage more than 400 public performances a year by students, staff and visiting international artists.TransportEasily accessible from major approach roads. The airport is handy, as are the stations.ContactTel: 0141 332 4101Web: rcs.ac.ukEmail: musicadmissions@rcs.ac.uk / danceadmissions@rrcs.ac.uk / dramaadmissions@rcs.ac.ukAccommodation: libertyliving.co.uk", "tags": ["University guide", "Royal Conservatoire of Scotland", "Higher education", "Students", "Education"], "title": "University guide 2016: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-05-10T15:45:29Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Nicola Sturgeon was telling the truth when she said her campaign wasn\u2019t about winning independence. Scots, submerging the nation under an SNP flood, weren\u2019t seeking independence. They were doing it.In the course of a few years Scotland changed, grew up, liked what it saw in the mirror. Not just the yes voters in the September referendum. Many no voters felt empowered too. From such \u201cYes, we can!\u201d moments, there\u2019s no way back. Related: We, the Scottish people, cannot now be ignored | Nicola Sturgeon Glasgow went daft with \u201cyes city\u201d pride after the referendum, roaring as if it had just set up the Paris Commune. But last week, after an even more devastating rebellion that swept away all seven Labour MPs and half a century\u2019s power monopoly, Glasgow kept cool. \u201cSee us, this is what we do!\u201d And what they were doing, in the limited field of electoral choice, was independence.In these Scottish politics, the people\u00a0race ahead of their politicians \u2013 the SNP included. At the UK level, grave men and women debate constitutional options for problems that are already\u00a0solving themselves.First, \u201chow to save the union\u201d. But the 1707 union between England and Scotland is already dead. As a piece of architecture, it was abandoned in 1999, when the devolved Scottish parliament met. Rain blew in as slates fell off; pews were looted; and the Holyrood elections of 2007 and 2011 brought down more of the roof. Last week Alex Salmond said he heard the Scottish lion roaring. I heard the rumble as the union\u2019s floor gave way\u00a0and fell into the crypt.Today, what exists instead is a constantly changing, fluid set of relationships between London and Edinburgh, confused by feeble constitutional wheezes that arrive too late. \u201cSave the union!\u201d Why? In Scotland, there are still unionists who know why and will fight for it. But in England the \u201cwhy?\u201d question usually meets with baffled silence.The second \u201cgreat challenge\u201d which has begun to solve itself is EVEL \u2013 English votes for English laws. But Westminster is well on the way to becoming an English parliament anyway. As Michael Kenny writes in his book The Politics of English Nationhood, \u201cAs an unintended consequence of devolution \u2026 an increasingly Anglicised polity has quietly emerged as an incubus at the heart of the UK state \u2026 the Westminster parliament is gradually evolving into an English-focused one.\u201dLast Thursday crippled the Labour party as a parliamentary force. So the context in which Scottish MPs could force unwanted legislation on England has vanished. No more, Nicola Sturgeon\u2019s vision of a progressive alliance with Labour. SNP interventions on English legislation will be annoying to English chauvinists but usually ineffectual. And I think most Scots feel their MPs should not decide purely English issues. After all, before devolution they had 292 years\u2019 experience of English MPs outvoting the Scots on Scottish issues .So what is the SNP eruption into the House of Commons going to do with itself? The election programme, based on hope for a hung parliament, promised to reverse austerity. But now there\u2019s no balance of power to hold, no obvious way to resist five more years of Osborne cuts demolishing what\u2019s left of the welfare state and slashing public spending in ways that directly affect Scotland\u2019s budget. Sturgeon can make sure that \u201cScotland\u2019s voice will be heard\u201d. But not that it will be obeyed. In the 1980s Scotland\u2019s army of Labour MPs was unable to protect the country from Margaret Thatcher\u2019s onslaught against \u201csociety\u201d and the public interest. Back then the SNP cruelly called them \u201cthe feeble fifty\u201d. Now Salmond and his 55 comrades march on to on the same unfair battlefield. Can they do better?The best card Sturgeon holds is David Cameron\u2019s pride. He really does not want to \u201cgo down in history as the prime minister who lost Scotland\u201d. He lacks the satanic realism to grab permanent control of England by letting the Scots go. But, like most English politicians, he simply does not get Scotland. John Major thought the \u201cloopy\u201d devolution thing only arose because \u201cthe Scots feel\u00a0out of things up there; I really should go there more often\u201d. Michael (Lord) Forsyth, although Scottish enough to know better, persuaded himself that returning the Stone of Destiny would throw the Scots into a grateful coma. Scottish nationalism to Cameron is a disfiguring, un-British infection, which can be treated with dabs\u00a0of shiny ointment.So there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits ... but no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcastingSo there will be offers to transfer further tax and benefits. Maybe even some right to foreign representation. (At last month\u2019s EU fisheries summit, Westminster refused to send the Scottish minister and dispatched an English Tory hereditary peer \u2013 \u201cLord Rupert\u201d Ponsonby \u2013 instead.) A constitutional convention to talk about federalism (a non-starter, because the English don\u2019t want to be split up into federal states)? But no devolution of immigration, asylum, broadcasting \u2013 powers that really matter. Nothing approaching devo max or home rule: control of everything save foreign affairs and defence.And yet Cameron said on Friday that he would grant Scotland \u201cthe strongest devolved government anywhere in the world\u201d. Hard to know what he meant by that. No other country in the world has British-style devolution, in which the centre retains an absolute veto over the periphery. And the single most important devolution is not for governments to make.I mean the disconnection of political parties. What if Scottish Tories, Lib Dems and Labour reinvent their links with London headquarters, \u201cindependent allies\u201d rather than branch\u00a0offices? The Christian Social Union in Bavaria is a separate party, in a\u00a0stable alliance with Germany\u2019s Christian Democrats. The Scottish Tories played with such a scheme recently but rejected it. In this election campaign, Scottish Labour leader Jim Murphy boasted briefly that he would take no orders from Labour in London. But the meaning of last week is that the SNP has been adopted as \u201cScotland\u2019s party\u201d, not least because it\u00a0has no strings to London. The battered survivors of Scotland\u2019s opposition must take that on board.If Scotland is already doing independence, next year\u2019s Holyrood elections matter even more than Thursday\u2019s. Should the party \u2013 if it can repeat last week\u2019s success under the Scottish proportional system \u2013 promise another independence referendum?This is a fateful moment for Sturgeon. Her nationalism is instrumental rather than existential: independence as the means to social justice and prosperity, not the end. Most people who voted yes thought the same way. But there are many passionate activists who don\u2019t. She knows she can\u2019t afford to lose a second referendum, so timing is everything. By May 2016 excitement about the approaching Europe referendum will be coming to the boil. Loud voices will be urging her to seize the chance: England will vote to leave the EU, Scotland to stay in, and at that point another independence vote could be won.The trouble is that the facts don\u2019t yet\u00a0fit. The English may reel back from\u00a0the brink of Brexit, while the Scots\u00a0are not dramatically more pro-EU\u00a0than their southern neighbours. And a big slice of those who gave Sturgeon this stunning vote last week are Scots who like the SNP\u2019s style but voted no to independence.But time, and steadily hardening Scottish self-confidence are on the SNP\u2019s side. By 2017, opinion may have\u00a0radicalised still further. Then a head-on collision over Europe might see those 56 men and women leave the\u00a0green benches, head back to Edinburgh, and proclaim a sovereign Scotland under the Saltire.That doesn\u2019t have to be a calamity. Many problems would vanish, replaced\u00a0by a friendly Scotland in a British confederation. England could start taking itself in hand, while Scotland is quietly doing independence already. Devolution didn\u2019t hurt, did it? So relax, England! You\u2019ll feel so much better when it\u2019s over.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Labour", "Constitutional reform", "UK news"], "title": "For Scotland, independence day has already dawned | Neal Ascherson"},{"date": "2015-05-09T09:10:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "We provide locations and co-produce shoots for film and photography throughout the UK. People come to us with an idea or the backdrop or style they want for a shoot, and we put a location forward. Our clients include Glenfiddich, BMW, Chanel, H&M, Elle US and Vanity Fair.It was my husband\u2019s. He\u2019s a photographer and has travelled to many amazing places for work. When we got married, he moved to Scotland and was staggered by its beauty. He thought there was potential for a Scottish production company that played on the advantages of the local landscape. I didn\u2019t have previous experience in the industry \u2013 I was an air stewardess for nine years before leaving work for four and a half years to look after my children, but I took a chance.The natural beauty of Scotland can be overwhelming at times, but most people are not aware of the huge variety we have to offer. Scotland is a small country, but there aren\u2019t many places in the world with so much diversity \u2013 rocky cliffs, stunning beaches, lush green plains, rolling hills, beautiful seascapes, amazing architecture and cities steeped in culture. All in the one place and bathed in a quality of light that is famous throughout the world. On top of that, we have some fantastic, modern architecture that can look like it\u2019s in LA or Cape Town.I really like one that we used in an American mid-west style shoot for Russian vogue. It\u2019s on the coast, 30 minutes south-east of Edinburgh and has amazing red sandstone rocks \u2013 not something that you\u2019d associate with Scotland.Everywhere I go I make notes on interesting backdrops. For example, some of our clients have an obsession with doors and steps so I always notice striking designs.Finding the time to do everything I want to do with it, while also looking after my family. But I\u2019m learning to slow down occasionally. Our first enquiry from Crew Clothing was definitely a breakthrough moment for me. It was the first time I felt we were properly in business and it was such a great feeling to know that people wanted to work with us. On a more personal level, I felt the business had taken a step forward when I realised I didn\u2019t need to oversee everything in the office on a daily basis. It was refreshing to witness every department working well together, and also independently, without me being there every step of the way. Undoubtedly our ever-growing client list \u2013 the calibre of global companies that we work with. I\u2019m also proud of developing the Location Scotland team, who are a truly talented and dedicated group of people.We opened a New York office last summer and plan to continue producing great film and photography work in Scotland in collaboration with our partners in New York. We want to promote Scotland as one of the most versatile locations for any global brand campaign or creative project.Another focus will be increasing our locations database and developing our expansion into other areas of the UK. We want to be in a position to say yes if a client asks for our services outside of Scotland.Think about what you really want for your business and write a short plan of how you are going to achieve your business dreams. Be prepared to put in the hours and make sure you have some fun along the way.Marie Owen is the owner and managing director of Location Scotland (LS)", "tags": ["Guardian Small Business Network", "Business", "Small business", "Entrepreneurs", "Film industry"], "title": "Small business in the spotlight ... Location Scotland"},{"date": "2015-06-27T23:05:02Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The leader of the Scottish National party at Westminster has suggested that the people of Scotland could vote to leave the UK in a second independence referendum within five years if David Cameron fails to deliver on promises for greater devolution and imposes more austerity north of the border.In an interview with the Observer, Angus Robertson, who leads 56 SNP MPs in the House of Commons \u2013 in what is now the third largest party \u2013 said many politicians at Westminster had clearly failed to grasp the scale of the political change in Scotland. The Tory government, he claimed, was attempting to backtrack on promises, made before and after last year\u2019s independence referendum, to devolve more powers to Scotland while preparing an austerity budget that would also further inflame resentment. Some in the UK parliament, he said, seemed to be living in the vain hope that the SNP, and the pressure for independence, were temporary phenomena which would just \u201cgo away\u201d \u2013 something he insisted would not happen.The clearest sign of Westminster\u2019s failure to comprehend the SNP and the wishes of Scots, he said, was the content of the Scotland bill on devolving powers which, as currently drafted, failed to implement many of the recommendations of the Smith commission that Cameron had pledged to introduce in full. Signs of backtracking by the government were feeding resentment among the Scottish people, who felt increasingly that Westminster was ignoring their wishes and failing to take on board the lessons from the SNP landslide north of the border.Asked whether he believed there could be a second referendum and a Yes vote before the end of Cameron\u2019s second term, Robertson refused to rule out the possibility. \u201cI think that largely lies with David Cameron. He has to make a decision as to how he is going to approach governing Scotland with only one MP, having made a cast-iron promise and an undertaking to deliver on more powers for the Scottish parliament and the voters.\u201dHe added: \u201cDo I believe that in the future there will be further moves towards Scottish self-government? Yes, I do. Do I believe that there will in time be a growing desire in Scotland for independence? Yes, I do. Do I believe that in time there will be a referendum when the public wants it on independence and that there will be a Yes result? Yes, I do.\u201dRobertson insists his MPs are working constructively in parliament, but maintains the other parties are finding it impossible to accept the new force in their midst. \u201cWestminster is having to come to terms with a very changed position in the chamber, where the Liberal Democrats are hard to see or hear because there are so few of them and this massive cohort of SNP are shocking the system by turning up to debates and taking part and having views that parts of the political class at Westminster have never heard.\u201cImages are regularly tweeted in Scotland of the small number of Tories on one side [of the House of Commons]and a similarly small number of Labour MPs \u2013 and scores of SNP MPs filling up the benches of the third party. Our party has arrived here with a job to do and, boy, are they going to do it.\u201dThe SNP task was clear. \u201cWe were elected on a very well understood platform, standing up for Scottish interests to deliver the new powers that were promised to voters who voted both Yes and No in the referendum last year. We were elected on a strong mandate to oppose austerity, to resist the renewal of Trident, to represent our constituents. Unlike other parties, we have an extremely tangible north star.\u201dThe SNP says it fully respects the narrow No vote last year, and that it is up to the Scottish people to decide if and when they want another independence referendum, an option party leader Nicola Sturgeon has refused to fully close off. There has been speculation that plans for one could be included in some form in the SNP manifesto for the Holyrood elections next year.In the meantime the party is portraying the government and Westminster parties as serial betrayers. Robertson say that a cross-party report by the Scottish parliament, as well as analysis by the House of Commons Library, supports its view that the Scotland bill falls short of the recommendations made by the Smith commission, a claim the government strongly rejects.Cameron says the bill does implement the commission\u2019s recommendations and argues that the SNP is now backing off from its previous demands for full fiscal autonomy because it has realised it would be a bad deal for Scotland.On devolution, Robertson added: \u201cA promise was made and already we can see with the government\u2019s legislation in the Scotland bill that has been presented does not match the Smith commission that was agreed and does not match the commitment made by the PM that he would look seriously on the proposals from the Scottish government on further devolution, which is what the people of Scotland voted on at the general election.\u201dThe SNP says the bill fails to guarantee greater powers over welfare payments, and goes nowhere near delivering on Cameron\u2019s pledge for a redistribution of power that would be as \u201cclose to federalism as possible\u201d.Ahead of next month\u2019s budget, he said Scots would not take kindly to a package that imposed further cuts on them, in the form of \u00a312bn of welfare reductions. Plans for a proposed multibillion pound renovation of parliament \u2013 which the SNP believes will rekindle memories of the fiasco of a Scottish parliament building completed three years late and at 10 times the original budget \u2013 were also unacceptable.\u201cOf course one needs to make sure a public building can function for its purpose, but spending \u00a35bn, \u00a38bn, \u00a312bn on a renovation project I think is going to find very little favour with people who are about to be told their income is about to be cut very severely. There is hardly a bigger example of wrong priorities.\u201cThe more that the UK parties, having been humiliated in the general election, do not respect the voters who voted for the SNP in the general election \u2013 but not for independence \u2013 there will be a growing view in Scotland that political institutions are not in a position to understand or care enough to realise that change needs to happen.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "Devolution", "David Cameron", "Scottish independence", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "SNP warns Scotland could still vote for independence"},{"date": "2015-06-24T10:45:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "The Queen is a bit like a Bismarckian sausage. Everyone, well almost everyone, loves the product, but the manufacturing process really doesn\u2019t bear examination. Yesterday, the Palace fleetingly revealed a glimpse of the substructure of the monarchy, and more specifically the extraordinary assets held in the monarch\u2019s name from which she derives her income. It was a dazzling masterclass in democratic charades.The crown estate turns out to mean your favourite beach, a great many offshore wind turbines and a McDonald\u2019s, along with oh, Australia, Canada and some other smaller nooks and crannies of the empire. They don\u2019t contribute much rent, but they do give her a bit of a party when she visits. Most of the revenue from this vast portfolio goes to the Treasury, in a deal agreed only four years ago, and which is up for renewal next year. That could vary the percentage of the profits of the crown estate (see above) from the current 15%. Related: Scotland decides to stop funding Queen via Scottish crown estate The suggestion that an elderly couple will have to move out or live with a leaking roof and useless central heating is tear-jerking stuff, although in the bigger picture less so, particularly in the context of a) the bedroom tax, b) government plans to redefine poverty, and c) an annual income of \u00a335m. Also the elderly couple in question can choose any one of their other four palaces: Holyroodhouse, Windsor Castle, St James\u2019s Palace, Clarence House and Kensington Palace. Several of them, Londoners will realise, are close by Buckingham Palace. But that is a cheap and predictable political jibe. There is a much more serious point to all of this.Buckingham Palace is splendid. That is what it is for. It has a magnificent approach, off Trafalgar Square and through Admiralty Arch along the Mall, a mile-long processional avenue \u2013 the perfect setting for the rich panoply of monarchy. The vista is only interrupted by the Victoria Memorial, erected in 1913 to perpetuate an image of imperial majesty that made George Bernard Shaw blush, and \u201clong for a trip in a bombing aeroplane\u201d. This was less because of any republican sympathies than because he thought it, like most other statues of the queen-empress, a terrible misrepresentation of a small but stylish lady.It became a royal palace in the early 19th century. Not a great time for the idea of monarchy, or at least not until after 1815. By the 1800s, what had started in the 1790s as a piece of run-of-the-mill royal extravagance, had been converted into a handy weapon in the propaganda campaign to entrench established power. Nothing new in that, except that of all the surviving monarchies in the world, only in Britain does the royal family still occupy so completely the dominant royal building of the capital.Just ponder, for a moment, the strange synergy of architectural decay. Last week the Palace of Westminster, this week Buckingham Palace, probably the most globally recognised architectural symbols of the United Kingdom. Both were designed and built in the first part of the 19th century with a very clear sense that they needed to be the physical expression of a power that was not necessarily quite as securely founded as the palaces\u2019 architects were instructed to suggest.They were built in revolutionary times to represent an unbreachable continuity. They were bulwarks against change then, and now, 200 years later, they continue to represent institutions that have not changed enough.The real story out of yesterday\u2019s factory tour is not that the machinery needs upgrading, but that there is one part of the realm (see the royal website for a helpful answer to the question, \u201cwhat is a realm?\u201d) that has had a brilliant idea about the next step. Scotland.As a PR-savvy royal aide said yesterday, legislation now going through parliament will give the SNP management of royal assets in Scotland. That means it could, in theory, hold on to all the profits. At yesterday\u2019s briefing Sir Alan Reid, keeper of the privy purse, suggested that this meant there could be a \u201ccomplication\u201d over future funding.The SNP has been bounced by this revelation into insisting it has no intention of cutting off its share of the sovereign grant, which funds the royal household. The Queen is safe in their hands. That\u2019s fine. The point is that if it wanted to, and if Scottish voters wanted to, then it could.If Scotland can do it, why should the rest of the UK not have the same power? Using it would be an entirely democratic choice. It\u2019s no more likely to happen any time soon than it is that Her Majesty pops out to Tesco for sausages. But it would feel good to have the choice.", "tags": ["The Queen", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Scotland"], "title": "Scotland has the right approach to the Queen\u2019s sausage factory | Anne Perkins"},{"date": "2015-06-20T23:08:00Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "When the time comes for God to call last orders on the world and the judging\u00a0of the living and the dead is under way, I wonder if nations will be called to justify their actions too? Will prime ministers and presidents be asked to account not only for their own personal conduct, but also for the conduct of their country when they were in office?So, while Tony Blair may have led a blameless personal life in which he was\u00a0a loving father and husband, will he also be judged on the charges of waging an unjust war? Similarly, will Jack Kennedy\u2019s private indiscretions be outweighed by his confronting southern racism and resisting the bloodlust of his unhinged generals during the Cuban missile crisis?And will we, too, no matter how pure of heart and mind we are, be asked what we were doing while political and social injustice occurred in our own backyards?Cultural and civic Scotland seems to be quite clear on how it wants to be remembered both in this life and the next. Here lies Scotland: it was the most fair and equal society in the world. We must surely, as a nation, be in the running for a prize in the annual JustGiving awards. During the referendum on Scottish independence, there were so many people, mainly on the yes side, espousing so much nobility of purpose that I often found myself wanting to get utterly howling with it and indulge in some antisocial behaviour and break a few things, just for the hell of it.The SNP government announced last week that it is to undertake a bizarre crowd-sourcing exercise around the country this summer in further pursuit of the higher things in life. Ministers will tour the country asking us, the idiot punters, for ideas on how we can make Scotland a fairer and more equal country.Alex Neil obviously drew the short straw last week as the other cabinet secretaries were allowed to bring in their games for last day of term. For upon him has fallen the task of visiting Coatbridge to launch the scheme. He insists it will be a unique reversal of \u201ctraditional politics\u201d: aye, very good, Alex. This is how it will work: when the public turn out in their tens to give\u00a0you their ideas on making everything fairer and more equitable there will simply be no grass long enough anywhere in Scotland into which to kick them all.Those ideas that do make it on to a ministerial email will not make it past the civil servants who are employed solely for the purpose of ensuring that nothing dramatic will ever ensue. It is a futile exercise in political condescension.The SNP\u2019s initiative came just two days after it was revealed that in Scotland, since 1997, the richest people in the country have seen their wealth expand while the very poorest Scots have got poorer.Let\u2019s put it more starkly: in 16 years of unbroken, left-of-centre, socially progressive government, Scotland has actually become more socially regressive.So, rather than getting her ministers to jolly around the country putting up chocolate wallpaper, Nicola Sturgeon ought instead to be locking them in an upper room of Bute House and telling them not to come out until they have come up with answers why the poverty gap is getting bigger in an affluent country. Blaming it all on Westminster will not be considered a viable response.However, as I\u2019m a glass-always-full sort of chiel who\u2019s always walking on the sunny side of the street, I\u2019ll give Neil the benefit of the doubt and will even provide him with a few starters for 10.Everywhere you look in this country, there is unfairness and inequality. We\u2019ve had eight years of SNP government and the big injustices still remain. Our top judges are grotesquely\u00a0unrepresentative of Scottish society.About 80% of our first division of law lords were taught at the sort of schools that 96% of the Scottish population can\u2019t afford to attend. Most of these men and women who are allowed to sit in judgment over the rest of us simply do not have a clue about the storms and currents that can impel some men and women in desperate circumstances to act as they do.If you attended a comprehensive school in Scotland, you will have more chance of encountering a hooped unicorn than of ever becoming a top judge in this country.As for the top jobs in Scotland\u2019s civil service, as one prominent member of that faculty once told me: if you didn\u2019t attend a private school in Edinburgh, you need not apply. These people are trained to reject imagination, creativity and risk. It is why absolutely nothing of any radical consequence will ever happen in this country, despite the honeyed words of SNP and Labour.Our top universities are still allowed wilfully to practise their social gerrymandering to ensure that this iniquitous pattern of unearned privilege and cultural engineering persists.In this country, too, as Shelter revealed earlier this month, tens of thousands of Scots are homeless. Yet we allow local authorities to sell off common land to exploitative private builders who build homes increasingly out of the reach of the low paid.What of the rest of us? If there were prizes for soaring rhetoric about lifting\u00a0our fellow Scots out of poverty and being all equal and fair, those of us who were part of the 45 and who then voted for the 56 would win them all.So, how many of us would be willing to\u00a0pay\u00a0more tax in a fiscally autonomous Scotland to ensure that the deficit was within manageable proportions and that vital public services remain intact?Until then, this SNP government will be remembered always as being the most socially progressive-sounding party we have ever had in a country that always talked a good game. Fair and equal Scotland, my arse.", "tags": ["Poverty", "Housing", "Social mobility", "Education", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "UK news", "Scotland"], "title": "Fair and equal Scotland? Not so that you would notice | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-08-01T23:03:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Much still has to be done before Nicola Sturgeon realises her dream of making Scotland the most enlightened and socially just country on the planet. In normal circumstances, this would be no easy task but it\u2019s rendered more difficult by the fact that Scotland currently possesses a police force not fit for a banana republic.For those who have observed the diminishing of Scotland\u2019s police force from a world-renowned beacon of brusque efficiency to its current status as a national pantomime act the last few years have been painful. Nothing, though, which had previously occurred in the shambolic reign of Stephen House, chief constable of Police Scotland, matched the tragic incompetence of his force\u2019s performance in July.Last week, the funeral took place of Lamara Bell, the young mother of two who lay undiscovered for three days while seriously injured next to her dead boyfriend in their car after police failed to respond to a report of a motorway crash. Lamara and her partner, John Yuill, 28, had been reported missing by friends after they were last seen early on 5 July. A few hours later, a call was made to police reporting that the couple\u2019s car had left the road on the M9 near Bannockburn. It emerged that the initial report was not entered into the police system and so the usual independent investigation is now underway. Like all other police investigations though, it\u2019s not really independent because it will be conducted by the police themselves.Regrettably, the result of this \u201cindependent\u201d investigation has already been compromised by House who, in a desperately inappropriate attempt to hold on to his job, immediately blamed a police systems operator for not processing the fateful call. By attempting to apportion blame so quickly after the preventable death of two young people, he displayed the crass lack of judgment and arrogance that have been the defining characteristics of his reign.We have come to expect this from an individual for whom the normal rules of accountability in high public office do not seem to apply. We expect better from his boss, Scotland\u2019s justice minister, Michael Matheson, who is already exhibiting signs of a failure to control the police chief that eventually did for his predecessor, Kenny MacAskill. Matheson, unforgivably, also went down the route of making a scapegoat of a nameless and hapless junior employee before the \u201cindependent\u201d\u2019 investigation was even underway. There\u2019s a reason why the word \u201cjustice\u201d is included in your ministerial title, Michael.Despite the usual claims from Police Scotland sources that the tragedy was merely an isolated blip in an otherwise well-oiled machine, reports began to emerge from the police call centre at Bilston Glen, which took the original message about the M9 crash, about the chaotic running of it, low staff morale and a disturbingly high-pressure environment. This was later confirmed by the revelation that absenteeism rates were running at 10%. When it was later revealed that a police officer had left a message on the mobile phone of Lamara Bell 10 days after her death it seemed that what little confidence remained in Police Scotland as an effective organisation was evaporating. Yet still House clings to his job, despite having given notice that he will be stepping down voluntarily late next year.Even if Police Scotland were an efficiently run entity enjoying widespread public support, such a cocktail of error, denial and managerial incompetence would have placed the chief constable\u2019s future in jeopardy. This, though, is a dysfunctional organisation controlled by a man who is running it like his own private army. Last week, United Nations human rights advisers said that Police Scotland\u2019s enthusiastic deployment of stop-and-search powers was in danger of breaching international law.Under House, Scottish police seem to have adopted a \u201cscotched earth\u201d approach to apprehending innocent members of the public without any suspicion of a crime. Eighty-three children under the age of 11 were stopped and searched in six months last year without any proof of a crime. This figure dwarfed all other comparable figures anywhere in the UK.The National Union of Journalists has also called on Police Scotland to confirm or deny that it has been deploying illegal surveillance devices on at least two journalists in a bid to discover the identity of sources. Paul Hutcheon, the investigations editor of the Sunday Herald and a journalist who has a record of exposing police malpractice over several years, has also requested sight of all documentation currently held on him by Police Scotland.The haste with which the culture and attitudes of the police in Scotland have altered under the chief constable\u2019s tenure is staggering. Not long ago the police in Scotland were regarded as a genial but no-nonsense outfit deploying gruff common sense to keep our communities safe. Now it seems that the government and the police regard Scotland as an unstable rogue state constantly on the verge of violent upheaval. House\u2019s introduction of armed police in daylight among ordinary people going about the business of their day was further proof that Scotland has a chief constable who thinks he\u2019s Wyatt Earp.It was, though, the death in police custody of Sheku Bayoh following an incident in Kirkcaldy that has provided a sinister undertone to issues surrounding the culture and attitudes of our national police force. The 31-year-old father of two had no previous history of violence yet his family were subjected to an astonishing volley of criticism from a solicitor representing the Scottish Police Federation when a period of silence would have been more appropriate. The family of Mr Bayoh have since made their own investigations and claim that several different versions of the incident were given by the police; that their 5ft 10ins, 12st 10lb son was held down by five police officers including one weighing in at 25st and 6ft 4ins tall. He was not carrying a weapon as police later claimed and nor was there any question of a threat to national security as had also been suggested.A full judicial inquiry into the customs and practices of Police Scotland is the necessary second step towards restoring some confidence and trust among the public for this dysfunctional force that has become a law unto itself. The first step must be the immediate and long overdue resignation of Stephen House.", "tags": ["Police", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Police Scotland is a lamentable shambles | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-08-01T23:03:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Much still has to be done before Nicola Sturgeon realises her dream of making Scotland the most enlightened and socially just country on the planet. In normal circumstances, this would be no easy task but it\u2019s rendered more difficult by the fact that Scotland currently possesses a police force not fit for a banana republic.For those who have observed the diminishing of Scotland\u2019s police force from a world-renowned beacon of brusque efficiency to its current status as a national pantomime act the last few years have been painful. Nothing, though, which had previously occurred in the shambolic reign of Stephen House, chief constable of Police Scotland, matched the tragic incompetence of his force\u2019s performance in July.Last week, the funeral took place of Lamara Bell, the young mother of two who lay undiscovered for three days while seriously injured next to her dead boyfriend in their car after police failed to respond to a report of a motorway crash. Lamara and her partner, John Yuill, 28, had been reported missing by friends after they were last seen early on 5 July. A few hours later, a call was made to police reporting that the couple\u2019s car had left the road on the M9 near Bannockburn. It emerged that the initial report was not entered into the police system and so the usual independent investigation is now underway. Like all other police investigations though, it\u2019s not really independent because it will be conducted by the police themselves.Regrettably, the result of this \u201cindependent\u201d investigation has already been compromised by House who, in a desperately inappropriate attempt to hold on to his job, immediately blamed a police systems operator for not processing the fateful call. By attempting to apportion blame so quickly after the preventable death of two young people, he displayed the crass lack of judgment and arrogance that have been the defining characteristics of his reign.We have come to expect this from an individual for whom the normal rules of accountability in high public office do not seem to apply. We expect better from his boss, Scotland\u2019s justice minister, Michael Matheson, who is already exhibiting signs of a failure to control the police chief that eventually did for his predecessor, Kenny MacAskill. Matheson, unforgivably, also went down the route of making a scapegoat of a nameless and hapless junior employee before the \u201cindependent\u201d\u2019 investigation was even underway. There\u2019s a reason why the word \u201cjustice\u201d is included in your ministerial title, Michael.Despite the usual claims from Police Scotland sources that the tragedy was merely an isolated blip in an otherwise well-oiled machine, reports began to emerge from the police call centre at Bilston Glen, which took the original message about the M9 crash, about the chaotic running of it, low staff morale and a disturbingly high-pressure environment. This was later confirmed by the revelation that absenteeism rates were running at 10%. When it was later revealed that a police officer had left a message on the mobile phone of Lamara Bell 10 days after her death it seemed that what little confidence remained in Police Scotland as an effective organisation was evaporating. Yet still House clings to his job, despite having given notice that he will be stepping down voluntarily late next year.Even if Police Scotland were an efficiently run entity enjoying widespread public support, such a cocktail of error, denial and managerial incompetence would have placed the chief constable\u2019s future in jeopardy. This, though, is a dysfunctional organisation controlled by a man who is running it like his own private army. Last week, United Nations human rights advisers said that Police Scotland\u2019s enthusiastic deployment of stop-and-search powers was in danger of breaching international law.Under House, Scottish police seem to have adopted a \u201cscotched earth\u201d approach to apprehending innocent members of the public without any suspicion of a crime. Eighty-three children under the age of 11 were stopped and searched in six months last year without any proof of a crime. This figure dwarfed all other comparable figures anywhere in the UK.The National Union of Journalists has also called on Police Scotland to confirm or deny that it has been deploying illegal surveillance devices on at least two journalists in a bid to discover the identity of sources. Paul Hutcheon, the investigations editor of the Sunday Herald and a journalist who has a record of exposing police malpractice over several years, has also requested sight of all documentation currently held on him by Police Scotland.The haste with which the culture and attitudes of the police in Scotland have altered under the chief constable\u2019s tenure is staggering. Not long ago the police in Scotland were regarded as a genial but no-nonsense outfit deploying gruff common sense to keep our communities safe. Now it seems that the government and the police regard Scotland as an unstable rogue state constantly on the verge of violent upheaval. House\u2019s introduction of armed police in daylight among ordinary people going about the business of their day was further proof that Scotland has a chief constable who thinks he\u2019s Wyatt Earp.It was, though, the death in police custody of Sheku Bayoh following an incident in Kirkcaldy that has provided a sinister undertone to issues surrounding the culture and attitudes of our national police force. The 31-year-old father of two had no previous history of violence yet his family were subjected to an astonishing volley of criticism from a solicitor representing the Scottish Police Federation when a period of silence would have been more appropriate. The family of Mr Bayoh have since made their own investigations and claim that several different versions of the incident were given by the police; that their 5ft 10ins, 12st 10lb son was held down by five police officers including one weighing in at 25st and 6ft 4ins tall. He was not carrying a weapon as police later claimed and nor was there any question of a threat to national security as had also been suggested.A full judicial inquiry into the customs and practices of Police Scotland is the necessary second step towards restoring some confidence and trust among the public for this dysfunctional force that has become a law unto itself. The first step must be the immediate and long overdue resignation of Stephen House.", "tags": ["Police", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Police Scotland is a lamentable shambles | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-07-22T06:30:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police Scotland is pressing for a single, centralised CCTV network to cover the country\u2019s streets, shops and public spaces after warning most of the current cameras are ageing, unreliable and potentially unlawful.The force has told Scottish ministers it wants to scrap what it sees as an outdated, \u201cpiecemeal\u201d system of local, decentralised control over 2,800 CCTV cameras. It instead wants a single police-run national network using high-definition digital cameras, installed at a cost of at least \u00a310m.The proposal is the central recommendation of a confidential Police Scotland review from 2013 that warns many of Scotland\u2019s ageing CCTV systems are close to collapse; a large number are kept running using second-hand parts bought at high cost and are at risk of \u201cinstant failure\u201d, it claims.Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmenThe document, published on Wednesday by the investigative website the Ferret after it was released under freedom of information legislation, also reveals that 16 unnamed local councils have failed to carry out any data-protection audits of their CCTV networks.It admits that in several areas in the old Grampian force area, and in Renfrewshire, where body cameras worn by police officers were tested, the force may be breaching data protection laws.An unredacted version of the report states: \u201cThe management of these devices at a number of different offices is questionable in regards to compliance with the Information Commissionaires [sic] Office guidance and legislative requirements.\u201d The call for a single police-controlled national network and revelations about the condition of the current CCTV network \u2013 identified in the report as \u201cpublic space\u201d cameras covering places such as roads, junctions, shopping areas, parks and squares, alarmed opposition parties and privacy campaigners.The Scottish Liberal Democrats have tabled parliamentary questions at Holyrood asking ministers to confirm that Scotland\u2019s CCTV network, unlike in England and Wales, is unregulated and unaudited. Ministers have previously said a voluntary code was sufficient. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem leader, who has repeatedly attacked the centralisation of policing in Scotland, said: \u201cThe Scottish government should follow the UK government and take steps to regulate CCTV cameras to prevent inappropriate surveillance in our community. Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmen.\u201cThe system needs an urgent overhaul, but I am far from convinced that the proposed national network is the answer, as it poses a number of questions about privacy, especially as it might be used in concert with new, unregulated facial-recognition technology.\u201dPol Clementsmith, from the privacy campaign Open Rights Group, told the Ferret: \u201cClear lines must be drawn in the digital sand otherwise we are all headed towards a situation where we\u2019re sleepwalking into a surveillance state.\u201cThis document lays bare an ongoing catalogue of errors, whereby Police Scotland and a number of local authorities are potentially breaching data-protection laws on a daily basis.\u201dPolice Scotland confirmed it was in \u201congoing dialogue\u201d with Scottish ministers, councils and CCTV partnerships to pursue its plan for an upgraded national network. The report said CCTV was an essential policing tool, but was also give public reassurance, helping tackle anti-social behaviour.The review had \u201cidentified the age of the current equipment and the advances that have been made in technology mean that an injection of capital funding will be required to update the ageing systems,\u201d a police spokesman said.But the Scottish government appeared to distance itself from the call for a single national system, insisting that it was encouraging the police to work with councils on co-funding CCTV. \u201cThe detail contained in the Public Space CCTV Review is a matter for Police Scotland who carried out the review,\u201d a spokeswoman said.The Police Scotland review found 80% of the country\u2019s public-space CCTV cameras \u2013 a definition that excludes schools, hospitals and housing association land, were old analogue systems. And 85% of the \u201cmatrices\u201d \u2013 the recording, control systems and TV monitors that back them up, were analogue, while 80% also used analogue communications systems. While nearly all the cameras were now hybrids, with retrofitted digital encoders, they were vulnerable to complete failure if analogue parts broke down. Related: Police stress costs thousands of working days in Scotland \u201cIt is clear that an investment into the landscape of public space CCTV is required now at an urgent pace. Systems across the country are already becoming obsolete and redundant,\u201d it reports, adding later: \u201cThere is a major piece of work required to turnaround failing systems, and to keep them fit for purpose.\u201d At 2013 prices, it would cost roughly \u00a33.8m to update all the analogue matrices and another \u00a35.75m to replace the analogue cameras, at some \u00a32,500 each, with ultra-high-definition Japanese cameras. There were would be further, unknown costs of using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile systems to upgrade their communications. The report said Police Scotland would focus on putting the newest static cameras on areas of high footfall and districts with high numbers of pubs and night clubs \u2013 \u201careas of night-time economy\u201d. But \u201crapid deployment cameras\u201d using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile networks would increase dramatically in number. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Surveillance", "UK news", "Technology", "Police"], "title": "Police Scotland pushes for centralised CCTV network"},{"date": "2015-08-01T23:03:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Much still has to be done before Nicola Sturgeon realises her dream of making Scotland the most enlightened and socially just country on the planet. In normal circumstances, this would be no easy task but it\u2019s rendered more difficult by the fact that Scotland currently possesses a police force not fit for a banana republic.For those who have observed the diminishing of Scotland\u2019s police force from a world-renowned beacon of brusque efficiency to its current status as a national pantomime act the last few years have been painful. Nothing, though, which had previously occurred in the shambolic reign of Stephen House, chief constable of Police Scotland, matched the tragic incompetence of his force\u2019s performance in July.Last week, the funeral took place of Lamara Bell, the young mother of two who lay undiscovered for three days while seriously injured next to her dead boyfriend in their car after police failed to respond to a report of a motorway crash. Lamara and her partner, John Yuill, 28, had been reported missing by friends after they were last seen early on 5 July. A few hours later, a call was made to police reporting that the couple\u2019s car had left the road on the M9 near Bannockburn. It emerged that the initial report was not entered into the police system and so the usual independent investigation is now underway. Like all other police investigations though, it\u2019s not really independent because it will be conducted by the police themselves.Regrettably, the result of this \u201cindependent\u201d investigation has already been compromised by House who, in a desperately inappropriate attempt to hold on to his job, immediately blamed a police systems operator for not processing the fateful call. By attempting to apportion blame so quickly after the preventable death of two young people, he displayed the crass lack of judgment and arrogance that have been the defining characteristics of his reign.We have come to expect this from an individual for whom the normal rules of accountability in high public office do not seem to apply. We expect better from his boss, Scotland\u2019s justice minister, Michael Matheson, who is already exhibiting signs of a failure to control the police chief that eventually did for his predecessor, Kenny MacAskill. Matheson, unforgivably, also went down the route of making a scapegoat of a nameless and hapless junior employee before the \u201cindependent\u201d\u2019 investigation was even underway. There\u2019s a reason why the word \u201cjustice\u201d is included in your ministerial title, Michael.Despite the usual claims from Police Scotland sources that the tragedy was merely an isolated blip in an otherwise well-oiled machine, reports began to emerge from the police call centre at Bilston Glen, which took the original message about the M9 crash, about the chaotic running of it, low staff morale and a disturbingly high-pressure environment. This was later confirmed by the revelation that absenteeism rates were running at 10%. When it was later revealed that a police officer had left a message on the mobile phone of Lamara Bell 10 days after her death it seemed that what little confidence remained in Police Scotland as an effective organisation was evaporating. Yet still House clings to his job, despite having given notice that he will be stepping down voluntarily late next year.Even if Police Scotland were an efficiently run entity enjoying widespread public support, such a cocktail of error, denial and managerial incompetence would have placed the chief constable\u2019s future in jeopardy. This, though, is a dysfunctional organisation controlled by a man who is running it like his own private army. Last week, United Nations human rights advisers said that Police Scotland\u2019s enthusiastic deployment of stop-and-search powers was in danger of breaching international law.Under House, Scottish police seem to have adopted a \u201cscotched earth\u201d approach to apprehending innocent members of the public without any suspicion of a crime. Eighty-three children under the age of 11 were stopped and searched in six months last year without any proof of a crime. This figure dwarfed all other comparable figures anywhere in the UK.The National Union of Journalists has also called on Police Scotland to confirm or deny that it has been deploying illegal surveillance devices on at least two journalists in a bid to discover the identity of sources. Paul Hutcheon, the investigations editor of the Sunday Herald and a journalist who has a record of exposing police malpractice over several years, has also requested sight of all documentation currently held on him by Police Scotland.The haste with which the culture and attitudes of the police in Scotland have altered under the chief constable\u2019s tenure is staggering. Not long ago the police in Scotland were regarded as a genial but no-nonsense outfit deploying gruff common sense to keep our communities safe. Now it seems that the government and the police regard Scotland as an unstable rogue state constantly on the verge of violent upheaval. House\u2019s introduction of armed police in daylight among ordinary people going about the business of their day was further proof that Scotland has a chief constable who thinks he\u2019s Wyatt Earp.It was, though, the death in police custody of Sheku Bayoh following an incident in Kirkcaldy that has provided a sinister undertone to issues surrounding the culture and attitudes of our national police force. The 31-year-old father of two had no previous history of violence yet his family were subjected to an astonishing volley of criticism from a solicitor representing the Scottish Police Federation when a period of silence would have been more appropriate. The family of Mr Bayoh have since made their own investigations and claim that several different versions of the incident were given by the police; that their 5ft 10ins, 12st 10lb son was held down by five police officers including one weighing in at 25st and 6ft 4ins tall. He was not carrying a weapon as police later claimed and nor was there any question of a threat to national security as had also been suggested.A full judicial inquiry into the customs and practices of Police Scotland is the necessary second step towards restoring some confidence and trust among the public for this dysfunctional force that has become a law unto itself. The first step must be the immediate and long overdue resignation of Stephen House.", "tags": ["Police", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Police Scotland is a lamentable shambles | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-07-22T06:30:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police Scotland is pressing for a single, centralised CCTV network to cover the country\u2019s streets, shops and public spaces after warning most of the current cameras are ageing, unreliable and potentially unlawful.The force has told Scottish ministers it wants to scrap what it sees as an outdated, \u201cpiecemeal\u201d system of local, decentralised control over 2,800 CCTV cameras. It instead wants a single police-run national network using high-definition digital cameras, installed at a cost of at least \u00a310m.The proposal is the central recommendation of a confidential Police Scotland review from 2013 that warns many of Scotland\u2019s ageing CCTV systems are close to collapse; a large number are kept running using second-hand parts bought at high cost and are at risk of \u201cinstant failure\u201d, it claims.Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmenThe document, published on Wednesday by the investigative website the Ferret after it was released under freedom of information legislation, also reveals that 16 unnamed local councils have failed to carry out any data-protection audits of their CCTV networks.It admits that in several areas in the old Grampian force area, and in Renfrewshire, where body cameras worn by police officers were tested, the force may be breaching data protection laws.An unredacted version of the report states: \u201cThe management of these devices at a number of different offices is questionable in regards to compliance with the Information Commissionaires [sic] Office guidance and legislative requirements.\u201d The call for a single police-controlled national network and revelations about the condition of the current CCTV network \u2013 identified in the report as \u201cpublic space\u201d cameras covering places such as roads, junctions, shopping areas, parks and squares, alarmed opposition parties and privacy campaigners.The Scottish Liberal Democrats have tabled parliamentary questions at Holyrood asking ministers to confirm that Scotland\u2019s CCTV network, unlike in England and Wales, is unregulated and unaudited. Ministers have previously said a voluntary code was sufficient. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem leader, who has repeatedly attacked the centralisation of policing in Scotland, said: \u201cThe Scottish government should follow the UK government and take steps to regulate CCTV cameras to prevent inappropriate surveillance in our community. Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmen.\u201cThe system needs an urgent overhaul, but I am far from convinced that the proposed national network is the answer, as it poses a number of questions about privacy, especially as it might be used in concert with new, unregulated facial-recognition technology.\u201dPol Clementsmith, from the privacy campaign Open Rights Group, told the Ferret: \u201cClear lines must be drawn in the digital sand otherwise we are all headed towards a situation where we\u2019re sleepwalking into a surveillance state.\u201cThis document lays bare an ongoing catalogue of errors, whereby Police Scotland and a number of local authorities are potentially breaching data-protection laws on a daily basis.\u201dPolice Scotland confirmed it was in \u201congoing dialogue\u201d with Scottish ministers, councils and CCTV partnerships to pursue its plan for an upgraded national network. The report said CCTV was an essential policing tool, but was also give public reassurance, helping tackle anti-social behaviour.The review had \u201cidentified the age of the current equipment and the advances that have been made in technology mean that an injection of capital funding will be required to update the ageing systems,\u201d a police spokesman said.But the Scottish government appeared to distance itself from the call for a single national system, insisting that it was encouraging the police to work with councils on co-funding CCTV. \u201cThe detail contained in the Public Space CCTV Review is a matter for Police Scotland who carried out the review,\u201d a spokeswoman said.The Police Scotland review found 80% of the country\u2019s public-space CCTV cameras \u2013 a definition that excludes schools, hospitals and housing association land, were old analogue systems. And 85% of the \u201cmatrices\u201d \u2013 the recording, control systems and TV monitors that back them up, were analogue, while 80% also used analogue communications systems. While nearly all the cameras were now hybrids, with retrofitted digital encoders, they were vulnerable to complete failure if analogue parts broke down. Related: Police stress costs thousands of working days in Scotland \u201cIt is clear that an investment into the landscape of public space CCTV is required now at an urgent pace. Systems across the country are already becoming obsolete and redundant,\u201d it reports, adding later: \u201cThere is a major piece of work required to turnaround failing systems, and to keep them fit for purpose.\u201d At 2013 prices, it would cost roughly \u00a33.8m to update all the analogue matrices and another \u00a35.75m to replace the analogue cameras, at some \u00a32,500 each, with ultra-high-definition Japanese cameras. There were would be further, unknown costs of using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile systems to upgrade their communications. The report said Police Scotland would focus on putting the newest static cameras on areas of high footfall and districts with high numbers of pubs and night clubs \u2013 \u201careas of night-time economy\u201d. But \u201crapid deployment cameras\u201d using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile networks would increase dramatically in number. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Surveillance", "UK news", "Technology", "Police"], "title": "Police Scotland pushes for centralised CCTV network"},{"date": "2015-09-26T23:09:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "To observe the acquiescent wing of the Labour party expressing more dismay at the election of a genuine leftwinger as leader than about Tory proposals to scrap the Human Rights Act (HRA) tells you why they are in retreat right across the party. As one SNP insider said to me last week: \u201cAll the mild left luvvies are descending on our conference in Aberdeen because they are scared of getting kicked around their own house this autumn.\u201dIn the run-up to the independence referendum and to May\u2019s general election, Conservative unionists and their allies within Labour attempted to blacken the SNP\u2019s liberal credentials by association. Their trick was to explain the astonishing surge in support for the SNP by linking it with the rise of \u201cextremism\u201d across the globe, including Donald Trump\u2019s tilt at the White House and the rise of the right in Belgium. It\u2019s a geo-political St Elmo\u2019s fire which has everything to do with the politics of the mob and nothing to do with ethics or policies.In this they seek to convince themselves that the surge in Scottish nationalism is a shortlived event that owes its occurrence to a peculiar set of historical circumstances and popular currents across the globe coming together haphazardly at the same time. God forbid that they would ever credit the supporters of Scottish nationalism with anything approaching political sophistication. They were also eager to insist that no true leftwinger could ever be a nationalist, as this would be to elevate the concerns of one group of people above all others. Thus they introduced the sulphuric whiff of racial supremacy into the mix.At times, this could be a compelling and seductive narrative. There were many on the left, myself included, who thought long and hard about backing a Yes vote in the independence referendum. How do you weigh your growing attachment to the idea of self-determination with a lifetime commitment to a global struggle of collectivism against capitalism? This view was often and eloquently expressed during the referendum by Douglas Alexander.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually isWhat persuaded many of us to back the Yes side last year, however, was a dawning conviction that an independent Scotland might become a hothouse of creatively radical ideas to counter the prevailing orthodoxy of greed, entitlement and stranger suspicion that underpinned the world\u2019s economic power structures. The arrogance and sneering unpleasantness of Alistair Darling just made it a little bit easier.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually is. And recent social attitude surveys have shown that, on questions of immigration and refugees, your average Scot is not the enlightened savant of popular liberal imagination. On education, policing and stewardship of the NHS, there are gaping holes in the SNP\u2019s ability to manage these areas. On reflection, though, I\u2019d say that those of us who voted Yes are still happy at having done so and will be eager to do so again when the opportunity arises.Speeches such as the one Nicola Sturgeon made last week in Glasgow on the HRA simply served to remind us why so many are still happy to support an independent Scotland. Similarly, they viewed her response earlier this month to the Syrian and African refugee crisis as echoing sentiments held deep within the breast of the nation.On human rights, the first minister gave her most unequivocal commitment to using all means possible to oppose the Tory plans to scrap the act and replace it with a UK Bill of Rights. The final arbiters in any disputes over our rights as citizens would thus pass into the hands of a collection of judges drawn from the tiny social and cultural elite who are so keen to scrap the HRA.The act prescribes a code of basic decency that obliges governments to protect ordinary citizens, as well as the weak and the vulnerable, from greed, self-interest and power. Underpinning it is a basic assumption that governments of the right and the left are, however, always susceptible to greed, self-interest and power and so must be saved from themselves.It\u2019s worth being reminded what the HRA holds to be sacrosanct: the right to employment and to a proper wage; the right to share in the economic bounty of the country; the right to protest against unsavoury corporate or government behaviour; to withdraw one\u2019s labour without fear of reprisal; to practise one\u2019s religion and to be respected and treated equally no matter your sexual orientation, skin colour or social background are the mere basics for peaceful co-existence among humans.It is no surprise then that the act is hated by those groups and interests who have most to gain by its scrapping, among them the present UK Conservative and Unionist party and their business backers. Many of them have been waiting for the day to dawn on a majority Conservative government so that they could resume the class war begun by Margaret Thatcher and interrupted when the act passed into UK law.They salivate at the prospect of growing their businesses free from the need properly to care for those who make their profits. And they live for the day when they can jettison those whom they deem to be obstacles to their goals of accumulating wealth or exercising influence. They are resentful and bitter at ever having been forced to spend lots of their money looking after sick and fragile people. Society was set up for the strongest and the fittest to prevail; there are no second prizes; you only get one chance. These are their mottos.Scotland had a chance last year to decouple itself from this deceit and the country blew it. Happily, it looks like we will soon enough be granted a second chance. More important than independence alone, though, is the knowledge that you are living in a country that takes seriously its duties to the weakest and smallest of its citizens.", "tags": ["Human Rights Act", "Human rights", "Law", "Politics", "UK news", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nicola Sturgeon"], "title": "Here we take our duties to the weakest seriously | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-08-01T23:03:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Much still has to be done before Nicola Sturgeon realises her dream of making Scotland the most enlightened and socially just country on the planet. In normal circumstances, this would be no easy task but it\u2019s rendered more difficult by the fact that Scotland currently possesses a police force not fit for a banana republic.For those who have observed the diminishing of Scotland\u2019s police force from a world-renowned beacon of brusque efficiency to its current status as a national pantomime act the last few years have been painful. Nothing, though, which had previously occurred in the shambolic reign of Stephen House, chief constable of Police Scotland, matched the tragic incompetence of his force\u2019s performance in July.Last week, the funeral took place of Lamara Bell, the young mother of two who lay undiscovered for three days while seriously injured next to her dead boyfriend in their car after police failed to respond to a report of a motorway crash. Lamara and her partner, John Yuill, 28, had been reported missing by friends after they were last seen early on 5 July. A few hours later, a call was made to police reporting that the couple\u2019s car had left the road on the M9 near Bannockburn. It emerged that the initial report was not entered into the police system and so the usual independent investigation is now underway. Like all other police investigations though, it\u2019s not really independent because it will be conducted by the police themselves.Regrettably, the result of this \u201cindependent\u201d investigation has already been compromised by House who, in a desperately inappropriate attempt to hold on to his job, immediately blamed a police systems operator for not processing the fateful call. By attempting to apportion blame so quickly after the preventable death of two young people, he displayed the crass lack of judgment and arrogance that have been the defining characteristics of his reign.We have come to expect this from an individual for whom the normal rules of accountability in high public office do not seem to apply. We expect better from his boss, Scotland\u2019s justice minister, Michael Matheson, who is already exhibiting signs of a failure to control the police chief that eventually did for his predecessor, Kenny MacAskill. Matheson, unforgivably, also went down the route of making a scapegoat of a nameless and hapless junior employee before the \u201cindependent\u201d\u2019 investigation was even underway. There\u2019s a reason why the word \u201cjustice\u201d is included in your ministerial title, Michael.Despite the usual claims from Police Scotland sources that the tragedy was merely an isolated blip in an otherwise well-oiled machine, reports began to emerge from the police call centre at Bilston Glen, which took the original message about the M9 crash, about the chaotic running of it, low staff morale and a disturbingly high-pressure environment. This was later confirmed by the revelation that absenteeism rates were running at 10%. When it was later revealed that a police officer had left a message on the mobile phone of Lamara Bell 10 days after her death it seemed that what little confidence remained in Police Scotland as an effective organisation was evaporating. Yet still House clings to his job, despite having given notice that he will be stepping down voluntarily late next year.Even if Police Scotland were an efficiently run entity enjoying widespread public support, such a cocktail of error, denial and managerial incompetence would have placed the chief constable\u2019s future in jeopardy. This, though, is a dysfunctional organisation controlled by a man who is running it like his own private army. Last week, United Nations human rights advisers said that Police Scotland\u2019s enthusiastic deployment of stop-and-search powers was in danger of breaching international law.Under House, Scottish police seem to have adopted a \u201cscotched earth\u201d approach to apprehending innocent members of the public without any suspicion of a crime. Eighty-three children under the age of 11 were stopped and searched in six months last year without any proof of a crime. This figure dwarfed all other comparable figures anywhere in the UK.The National Union of Journalists has also called on Police Scotland to confirm or deny that it has been deploying illegal surveillance devices on at least two journalists in a bid to discover the identity of sources. Paul Hutcheon, the investigations editor of the Sunday Herald and a journalist who has a record of exposing police malpractice over several years, has also requested sight of all documentation currently held on him by Police Scotland.The haste with which the culture and attitudes of the police in Scotland have altered under the chief constable\u2019s tenure is staggering. Not long ago the police in Scotland were regarded as a genial but no-nonsense outfit deploying gruff common sense to keep our communities safe. Now it seems that the government and the police regard Scotland as an unstable rogue state constantly on the verge of violent upheaval. House\u2019s introduction of armed police in daylight among ordinary people going about the business of their day was further proof that Scotland has a chief constable who thinks he\u2019s Wyatt Earp.It was, though, the death in police custody of Sheku Bayoh following an incident in Kirkcaldy that has provided a sinister undertone to issues surrounding the culture and attitudes of our national police force. The 31-year-old father of two had no previous history of violence yet his family were subjected to an astonishing volley of criticism from a solicitor representing the Scottish Police Federation when a period of silence would have been more appropriate. The family of Mr Bayoh have since made their own investigations and claim that several different versions of the incident were given by the police; that their 5ft 10ins, 12st 10lb son was held down by five police officers including one weighing in at 25st and 6ft 4ins tall. He was not carrying a weapon as police later claimed and nor was there any question of a threat to national security as had also been suggested.A full judicial inquiry into the customs and practices of Police Scotland is the necessary second step towards restoring some confidence and trust among the public for this dysfunctional force that has become a law unto itself. The first step must be the immediate and long overdue resignation of Stephen House.", "tags": ["Police", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Police Scotland is a lamentable shambles | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-07-22T06:30:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police Scotland is pressing for a single, centralised CCTV network to cover the country\u2019s streets, shops and public spaces after warning most of the current cameras are ageing, unreliable and potentially unlawful.The force has told Scottish ministers it wants to scrap what it sees as an outdated, \u201cpiecemeal\u201d system of local, decentralised control over 2,800 CCTV cameras. It instead wants a single police-run national network using high-definition digital cameras, installed at a cost of at least \u00a310m.The proposal is the central recommendation of a confidential Police Scotland review from 2013 that warns many of Scotland\u2019s ageing CCTV systems are close to collapse; a large number are kept running using second-hand parts bought at high cost and are at risk of \u201cinstant failure\u201d, it claims.Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmenThe document, published on Wednesday by the investigative website the Ferret after it was released under freedom of information legislation, also reveals that 16 unnamed local councils have failed to carry out any data-protection audits of their CCTV networks.It admits that in several areas in the old Grampian force area, and in Renfrewshire, where body cameras worn by police officers were tested, the force may be breaching data protection laws.An unredacted version of the report states: \u201cThe management of these devices at a number of different offices is questionable in regards to compliance with the Information Commissionaires [sic] Office guidance and legislative requirements.\u201d The call for a single police-controlled national network and revelations about the condition of the current CCTV network \u2013 identified in the report as \u201cpublic space\u201d cameras covering places such as roads, junctions, shopping areas, parks and squares, alarmed opposition parties and privacy campaigners.The Scottish Liberal Democrats have tabled parliamentary questions at Holyrood asking ministers to confirm that Scotland\u2019s CCTV network, unlike in England and Wales, is unregulated and unaudited. Ministers have previously said a voluntary code was sufficient. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem leader, who has repeatedly attacked the centralisation of policing in Scotland, said: \u201cThe Scottish government should follow the UK government and take steps to regulate CCTV cameras to prevent inappropriate surveillance in our community. Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmen.\u201cThe system needs an urgent overhaul, but I am far from convinced that the proposed national network is the answer, as it poses a number of questions about privacy, especially as it might be used in concert with new, unregulated facial-recognition technology.\u201dPol Clementsmith, from the privacy campaign Open Rights Group, told the Ferret: \u201cClear lines must be drawn in the digital sand otherwise we are all headed towards a situation where we\u2019re sleepwalking into a surveillance state.\u201cThis document lays bare an ongoing catalogue of errors, whereby Police Scotland and a number of local authorities are potentially breaching data-protection laws on a daily basis.\u201dPolice Scotland confirmed it was in \u201congoing dialogue\u201d with Scottish ministers, councils and CCTV partnerships to pursue its plan for an upgraded national network. The report said CCTV was an essential policing tool, but was also give public reassurance, helping tackle anti-social behaviour.The review had \u201cidentified the age of the current equipment and the advances that have been made in technology mean that an injection of capital funding will be required to update the ageing systems,\u201d a police spokesman said.But the Scottish government appeared to distance itself from the call for a single national system, insisting that it was encouraging the police to work with councils on co-funding CCTV. \u201cThe detail contained in the Public Space CCTV Review is a matter for Police Scotland who carried out the review,\u201d a spokeswoman said.The Police Scotland review found 80% of the country\u2019s public-space CCTV cameras \u2013 a definition that excludes schools, hospitals and housing association land, were old analogue systems. And 85% of the \u201cmatrices\u201d \u2013 the recording, control systems and TV monitors that back them up, were analogue, while 80% also used analogue communications systems. While nearly all the cameras were now hybrids, with retrofitted digital encoders, they were vulnerable to complete failure if analogue parts broke down. Related: Police stress costs thousands of working days in Scotland \u201cIt is clear that an investment into the landscape of public space CCTV is required now at an urgent pace. Systems across the country are already becoming obsolete and redundant,\u201d it reports, adding later: \u201cThere is a major piece of work required to turnaround failing systems, and to keep them fit for purpose.\u201d At 2013 prices, it would cost roughly \u00a33.8m to update all the analogue matrices and another \u00a35.75m to replace the analogue cameras, at some \u00a32,500 each, with ultra-high-definition Japanese cameras. There were would be further, unknown costs of using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile systems to upgrade their communications. The report said Police Scotland would focus on putting the newest static cameras on areas of high footfall and districts with high numbers of pubs and night clubs \u2013 \u201careas of night-time economy\u201d. But \u201crapid deployment cameras\u201d using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile networks would increase dramatically in number. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Surveillance", "UK news", "Technology", "Police"], "title": "Police Scotland pushes for centralised CCTV network"},{"date": "2015-09-26T23:09:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "To observe the acquiescent wing of the Labour party expressing more dismay at the election of a genuine leftwinger as leader than about Tory proposals to scrap the Human Rights Act (HRA) tells you why they are in retreat right across the party. As one SNP insider said to me last week: \u201cAll the mild left luvvies are descending on our conference in Aberdeen because they are scared of getting kicked around their own house this autumn.\u201dIn the run-up to the independence referendum and to May\u2019s general election, Conservative unionists and their allies within Labour attempted to blacken the SNP\u2019s liberal credentials by association. Their trick was to explain the astonishing surge in support for the SNP by linking it with the rise of \u201cextremism\u201d across the globe, including Donald Trump\u2019s tilt at the White House and the rise of the right in Belgium. It\u2019s a geo-political St Elmo\u2019s fire which has everything to do with the politics of the mob and nothing to do with ethics or policies.In this they seek to convince themselves that the surge in Scottish nationalism is a shortlived event that owes its occurrence to a peculiar set of historical circumstances and popular currents across the globe coming together haphazardly at the same time. God forbid that they would ever credit the supporters of Scottish nationalism with anything approaching political sophistication. They were also eager to insist that no true leftwinger could ever be a nationalist, as this would be to elevate the concerns of one group of people above all others. Thus they introduced the sulphuric whiff of racial supremacy into the mix.At times, this could be a compelling and seductive narrative. There were many on the left, myself included, who thought long and hard about backing a Yes vote in the independence referendum. How do you weigh your growing attachment to the idea of self-determination with a lifetime commitment to a global struggle of collectivism against capitalism? This view was often and eloquently expressed during the referendum by Douglas Alexander.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually isWhat persuaded many of us to back the Yes side last year, however, was a dawning conviction that an independent Scotland might become a hothouse of creatively radical ideas to counter the prevailing orthodoxy of greed, entitlement and stranger suspicion that underpinned the world\u2019s economic power structures. The arrogance and sneering unpleasantness of Alistair Darling just made it a little bit easier.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually is. And recent social attitude surveys have shown that, on questions of immigration and refugees, your average Scot is not the enlightened savant of popular liberal imagination. On education, policing and stewardship of the NHS, there are gaping holes in the SNP\u2019s ability to manage these areas. On reflection, though, I\u2019d say that those of us who voted Yes are still happy at having done so and will be eager to do so again when the opportunity arises.Speeches such as the one Nicola Sturgeon made last week in Glasgow on the HRA simply served to remind us why so many are still happy to support an independent Scotland. Similarly, they viewed her response earlier this month to the Syrian and African refugee crisis as echoing sentiments held deep within the breast of the nation.On human rights, the first minister gave her most unequivocal commitment to using all means possible to oppose the Tory plans to scrap the act and replace it with a UK Bill of Rights. The final arbiters in any disputes over our rights as citizens would thus pass into the hands of a collection of judges drawn from the tiny social and cultural elite who are so keen to scrap the HRA.The act prescribes a code of basic decency that obliges governments to protect ordinary citizens, as well as the weak and the vulnerable, from greed, self-interest and power. Underpinning it is a basic assumption that governments of the right and the left are, however, always susceptible to greed, self-interest and power and so must be saved from themselves.It\u2019s worth being reminded what the HRA holds to be sacrosanct: the right to employment and to a proper wage; the right to share in the economic bounty of the country; the right to protest against unsavoury corporate or government behaviour; to withdraw one\u2019s labour without fear of reprisal; to practise one\u2019s religion and to be respected and treated equally no matter your sexual orientation, skin colour or social background are the mere basics for peaceful co-existence among humans.It is no surprise then that the act is hated by those groups and interests who have most to gain by its scrapping, among them the present UK Conservative and Unionist party and their business backers. Many of them have been waiting for the day to dawn on a majority Conservative government so that they could resume the class war begun by Margaret Thatcher and interrupted when the act passed into UK law.They salivate at the prospect of growing their businesses free from the need properly to care for those who make their profits. And they live for the day when they can jettison those whom they deem to be obstacles to their goals of accumulating wealth or exercising influence. They are resentful and bitter at ever having been forced to spend lots of their money looking after sick and fragile people. Society was set up for the strongest and the fittest to prevail; there are no second prizes; you only get one chance. These are their mottos.Scotland had a chance last year to decouple itself from this deceit and the country blew it. Happily, it looks like we will soon enough be granted a second chance. More important than independence alone, though, is the knowledge that you are living in a country that takes seriously its duties to the weakest and smallest of its citizens.", "tags": ["Human Rights Act", "Human rights", "Law", "Politics", "UK news", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nicola Sturgeon"], "title": "Here we take our duties to the weakest seriously | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-09-19T23:05:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Gordon Brown would never forget what he was doing on the morning when the phone call came that would halt the downward trajectory of what remained of his public life. The news that Scotland had voted Yes had been broken to him gently early that day by Mr McDonald, the family odd-job man who lives in the converted coal-bunker at the foot of the garden.\u201cDamn and blast,\u201d he said and hurled an arrow at the face of Peter Mandelson, smiling crookedly at him from the centre of the dartboard. \u201cWill that be all, Mr Brown, sir?\u201d asked McDonald as he retreated gingerly towards the door. \u201cNot so fast, McDonald. Bring me my Raith Rovers match-day programmes \u2013 the 1994-95 season, I think. A chiel needs to be with his football memorabilia at a time like this.\u201dHe was just about to lift the phone and tear a strip off that fool Darling for getting him involved in the first place. Then he would phone Murray Foote, the wily Daily Record editor who had proposed that wretched, bloody vow. \u201cIt looks like you\u2019ve drawn it up on the back of a packet of Kensitas Club,\u201d he had protested. \u201cIt was a packet of Bennies, actually Gordon.\u201dBut the phone began to ring before he\u2019d had a chance to make the call.On the other end was his worst nightmare.\u201cHello Gordon, you old Unionist curmudgeon, it\u2019s Alex here,\u201d and Brown wanted to vomit. But Salmond\u2019s next words almost made his knees buckle. \u201cGordon, I want you to lead our negotiating team when we go to the Treasury next week and make our case for currency union. I know you argued against it, but all\u2019s fair in love and war and now your country needs you. Cameron, Osborne and that uppity colonial Carney, want to take our legs away before we can even walk. What do you say? Shall we discuss it over a couple of Salvadors at your Miners\u2019 Welfare Club? Maybe you could arrange a wee lock-in for privacy and I\u2019ll slip the barman a couple of monkeys. Let\u2019s call it quantitative easing, eh Gordon.\u201dBrown could actually hear his heart beating in his chest. Of course, he\u2019d advised against currency union, but it was just a stick to beat the Nationalists with, and even Carney had told him in private that there was no reason why an independent Scotland couldn\u2019t have the pound. \u201cAfter all, you Brits allowed Thatcher to pay the miners off and pay down the deficit by falsifying all those oil receipts for decades, so I think you owe them one.\u201d The Canadian was right of course, and Brown remembered erupting in fury when Osborne had fetched up in Edinburgh to tell the Scots the pound was English and let that be an end to it, like a medieval Saxon baron telling his tenants he had first call on their brides. The English had never in a million years expected a Yes vote and, faced with the reality of independence, they would simply have to cut a deal to avoid more uncertainty than was necessary in the money markets.Brown could see it all now. Of course he\u2019d have to swallow a bit of pride, but Murray at the Record could knock up another wee statement along the lines of: \u201cAfter a period of sober reflection, I have decided to accept Mr Salmond\u2019s offer of trying to secure the best possible currency deal for my country and my fellow citizens. I am honoured to represent my country at this crucial time in our history.\u201dAnd he imagined he was Gordon Dalziel swooping to head home that crucial League Cup goal against Celtic.Brown knew \u2013 all knew for God\u2019s sake \u2013 that there was nothing to stop Scotland declaring sterling to be its sole legal tender then borrowing it on the global markets to build up reserves.And they\u2019d be one of a family of nations which had adopted another state\u2019s currency. Scotland was also in a far healthier position than many other nations with a fledgling currency. It had a quarter of Europe\u2019s oil and gas, while whisky and tourism would also ensure a steady flow of sterling to Scotland, making it a net lender to England.Indeed, come to think of it, what was stopping Scotland creating its own currency, pegged to sterling? There\u2019d be no shortage of overseas investors in a new country with an educational hinterland, skilled and highly trained workforce and lucrative export markets.An enlightened array of tax incentives would help of course. He could scarce forbear to dream: Gordon Brown, the governor of the new National Bank of Scotland.Dear God in heaven, had it not turned out to be one of the best years of his life? As he emerged into the light of a watery dawn at Whitehall clutching his bit of paper and shouting to the waiting media: \u201cWe have a deal!\u201d he imagined Tony squatting on a gilded cushion in some desert kingdom trying grubbily to flog London real estate to bored Arab princes. The collapse of Greece meant of course that peaceful, prudent Scotland was welcomed into the EU and when Salmond announced that Scotland would open its borders to thousands more refugees, migrants and asylum-seekers its reputation grew in stature.Scotland also derived an economic dividend owing to the high number of these poor people who were qualified to work immediately and pay their way. Scotland\u2019s population projections were climbing and the rebirth of optimism and renewed national pride had lifted the economy.And when Gordon, freed from the restrictions of the 30-year rule, announced to his fellow Scots how much they had been charged in stealth charges to bail out the banks it made it easier for nation to accept the modest tax increases required to balance the books in the first crucial years of independence. And those MI5 plans to use Scotland as a human shield in the event of a nuclear attack finally did for Trident.It had taken him more than 30 years, but Gordon Brown had learned how to truly love his country again and discovered his lost socialist roots in the process.Perhaps they would name a new national dance after him, he mused with a chuckle: The Quite Affable Gordon Now, Thank You Very Much.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "The day Scotland said Yes and Mr Brown scored | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-08-01T23:03:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Much still has to be done before Nicola Sturgeon realises her dream of making Scotland the most enlightened and socially just country on the planet. In normal circumstances, this would be no easy task but it\u2019s rendered more difficult by the fact that Scotland currently possesses a police force not fit for a banana republic.For those who have observed the diminishing of Scotland\u2019s police force from a world-renowned beacon of brusque efficiency to its current status as a national pantomime act the last few years have been painful. Nothing, though, which had previously occurred in the shambolic reign of Stephen House, chief constable of Police Scotland, matched the tragic incompetence of his force\u2019s performance in July.Last week, the funeral took place of Lamara Bell, the young mother of two who lay undiscovered for three days while seriously injured next to her dead boyfriend in their car after police failed to respond to a report of a motorway crash. Lamara and her partner, John Yuill, 28, had been reported missing by friends after they were last seen early on 5 July. A few hours later, a call was made to police reporting that the couple\u2019s car had left the road on the M9 near Bannockburn. It emerged that the initial report was not entered into the police system and so the usual independent investigation is now underway. Like all other police investigations though, it\u2019s not really independent because it will be conducted by the police themselves.Regrettably, the result of this \u201cindependent\u201d investigation has already been compromised by House who, in a desperately inappropriate attempt to hold on to his job, immediately blamed a police systems operator for not processing the fateful call. By attempting to apportion blame so quickly after the preventable death of two young people, he displayed the crass lack of judgment and arrogance that have been the defining characteristics of his reign.We have come to expect this from an individual for whom the normal rules of accountability in high public office do not seem to apply. We expect better from his boss, Scotland\u2019s justice minister, Michael Matheson, who is already exhibiting signs of a failure to control the police chief that eventually did for his predecessor, Kenny MacAskill. Matheson, unforgivably, also went down the route of making a scapegoat of a nameless and hapless junior employee before the \u201cindependent\u201d\u2019 investigation was even underway. There\u2019s a reason why the word \u201cjustice\u201d is included in your ministerial title, Michael.Despite the usual claims from Police Scotland sources that the tragedy was merely an isolated blip in an otherwise well-oiled machine, reports began to emerge from the police call centre at Bilston Glen, which took the original message about the M9 crash, about the chaotic running of it, low staff morale and a disturbingly high-pressure environment. This was later confirmed by the revelation that absenteeism rates were running at 10%. When it was later revealed that a police officer had left a message on the mobile phone of Lamara Bell 10 days after her death it seemed that what little confidence remained in Police Scotland as an effective organisation was evaporating. Yet still House clings to his job, despite having given notice that he will be stepping down voluntarily late next year.Even if Police Scotland were an efficiently run entity enjoying widespread public support, such a cocktail of error, denial and managerial incompetence would have placed the chief constable\u2019s future in jeopardy. This, though, is a dysfunctional organisation controlled by a man who is running it like his own private army. Last week, United Nations human rights advisers said that Police Scotland\u2019s enthusiastic deployment of stop-and-search powers was in danger of breaching international law.Under House, Scottish police seem to have adopted a \u201cscotched earth\u201d approach to apprehending innocent members of the public without any suspicion of a crime. Eighty-three children under the age of 11 were stopped and searched in six months last year without any proof of a crime. This figure dwarfed all other comparable figures anywhere in the UK.The National Union of Journalists has also called on Police Scotland to confirm or deny that it has been deploying illegal surveillance devices on at least two journalists in a bid to discover the identity of sources. Paul Hutcheon, the investigations editor of the Sunday Herald and a journalist who has a record of exposing police malpractice over several years, has also requested sight of all documentation currently held on him by Police Scotland.The haste with which the culture and attitudes of the police in Scotland have altered under the chief constable\u2019s tenure is staggering. Not long ago the police in Scotland were regarded as a genial but no-nonsense outfit deploying gruff common sense to keep our communities safe. Now it seems that the government and the police regard Scotland as an unstable rogue state constantly on the verge of violent upheaval. House\u2019s introduction of armed police in daylight among ordinary people going about the business of their day was further proof that Scotland has a chief constable who thinks he\u2019s Wyatt Earp.It was, though, the death in police custody of Sheku Bayoh following an incident in Kirkcaldy that has provided a sinister undertone to issues surrounding the culture and attitudes of our national police force. The 31-year-old father of two had no previous history of violence yet his family were subjected to an astonishing volley of criticism from a solicitor representing the Scottish Police Federation when a period of silence would have been more appropriate. The family of Mr Bayoh have since made their own investigations and claim that several different versions of the incident were given by the police; that their 5ft 10ins, 12st 10lb son was held down by five police officers including one weighing in at 25st and 6ft 4ins tall. He was not carrying a weapon as police later claimed and nor was there any question of a threat to national security as had also been suggested.A full judicial inquiry into the customs and practices of Police Scotland is the necessary second step towards restoring some confidence and trust among the public for this dysfunctional force that has become a law unto itself. The first step must be the immediate and long overdue resignation of Stephen House.", "tags": ["Police", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Police Scotland is a lamentable shambles | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-07-22T06:30:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police Scotland is pressing for a single, centralised CCTV network to cover the country\u2019s streets, shops and public spaces after warning most of the current cameras are ageing, unreliable and potentially unlawful.The force has told Scottish ministers it wants to scrap what it sees as an outdated, \u201cpiecemeal\u201d system of local, decentralised control over 2,800 CCTV cameras. It instead wants a single police-run national network using high-definition digital cameras, installed at a cost of at least \u00a310m.The proposal is the central recommendation of a confidential Police Scotland review from 2013 that warns many of Scotland\u2019s ageing CCTV systems are close to collapse; a large number are kept running using second-hand parts bought at high cost and are at risk of \u201cinstant failure\u201d, it claims.Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmenThe document, published on Wednesday by the investigative website the Ferret after it was released under freedom of information legislation, also reveals that 16 unnamed local councils have failed to carry out any data-protection audits of their CCTV networks.It admits that in several areas in the old Grampian force area, and in Renfrewshire, where body cameras worn by police officers were tested, the force may be breaching data protection laws.An unredacted version of the report states: \u201cThe management of these devices at a number of different offices is questionable in regards to compliance with the Information Commissionaires [sic] Office guidance and legislative requirements.\u201d The call for a single police-controlled national network and revelations about the condition of the current CCTV network \u2013 identified in the report as \u201cpublic space\u201d cameras covering places such as roads, junctions, shopping areas, parks and squares, alarmed opposition parties and privacy campaigners.The Scottish Liberal Democrats have tabled parliamentary questions at Holyrood asking ministers to confirm that Scotland\u2019s CCTV network, unlike in England and Wales, is unregulated and unaudited. Ministers have previously said a voluntary code was sufficient. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem leader, who has repeatedly attacked the centralisation of policing in Scotland, said: \u201cThe Scottish government should follow the UK government and take steps to regulate CCTV cameras to prevent inappropriate surveillance in our community. Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmen.\u201cThe system needs an urgent overhaul, but I am far from convinced that the proposed national network is the answer, as it poses a number of questions about privacy, especially as it might be used in concert with new, unregulated facial-recognition technology.\u201dPol Clementsmith, from the privacy campaign Open Rights Group, told the Ferret: \u201cClear lines must be drawn in the digital sand otherwise we are all headed towards a situation where we\u2019re sleepwalking into a surveillance state.\u201cThis document lays bare an ongoing catalogue of errors, whereby Police Scotland and a number of local authorities are potentially breaching data-protection laws on a daily basis.\u201dPolice Scotland confirmed it was in \u201congoing dialogue\u201d with Scottish ministers, councils and CCTV partnerships to pursue its plan for an upgraded national network. The report said CCTV was an essential policing tool, but was also give public reassurance, helping tackle anti-social behaviour.The review had \u201cidentified the age of the current equipment and the advances that have been made in technology mean that an injection of capital funding will be required to update the ageing systems,\u201d a police spokesman said.But the Scottish government appeared to distance itself from the call for a single national system, insisting that it was encouraging the police to work with councils on co-funding CCTV. \u201cThe detail contained in the Public Space CCTV Review is a matter for Police Scotland who carried out the review,\u201d a spokeswoman said.The Police Scotland review found 80% of the country\u2019s public-space CCTV cameras \u2013 a definition that excludes schools, hospitals and housing association land, were old analogue systems. And 85% of the \u201cmatrices\u201d \u2013 the recording, control systems and TV monitors that back them up, were analogue, while 80% also used analogue communications systems. While nearly all the cameras were now hybrids, with retrofitted digital encoders, they were vulnerable to complete failure if analogue parts broke down. Related: Police stress costs thousands of working days in Scotland \u201cIt is clear that an investment into the landscape of public space CCTV is required now at an urgent pace. Systems across the country are already becoming obsolete and redundant,\u201d it reports, adding later: \u201cThere is a major piece of work required to turnaround failing systems, and to keep them fit for purpose.\u201d At 2013 prices, it would cost roughly \u00a33.8m to update all the analogue matrices and another \u00a35.75m to replace the analogue cameras, at some \u00a32,500 each, with ultra-high-definition Japanese cameras. There were would be further, unknown costs of using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile systems to upgrade their communications. The report said Police Scotland would focus on putting the newest static cameras on areas of high footfall and districts with high numbers of pubs and night clubs \u2013 \u201careas of night-time economy\u201d. But \u201crapid deployment cameras\u201d using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile networks would increase dramatically in number. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Surveillance", "UK news", "Technology", "Police"], "title": "Police Scotland pushes for centralised CCTV network"},{"date": "2015-09-26T23:09:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "To observe the acquiescent wing of the Labour party expressing more dismay at the election of a genuine leftwinger as leader than about Tory proposals to scrap the Human Rights Act (HRA) tells you why they are in retreat right across the party. As one SNP insider said to me last week: \u201cAll the mild left luvvies are descending on our conference in Aberdeen because they are scared of getting kicked around their own house this autumn.\u201dIn the run-up to the independence referendum and to May\u2019s general election, Conservative unionists and their allies within Labour attempted to blacken the SNP\u2019s liberal credentials by association. Their trick was to explain the astonishing surge in support for the SNP by linking it with the rise of \u201cextremism\u201d across the globe, including Donald Trump\u2019s tilt at the White House and the rise of the right in Belgium. It\u2019s a geo-political St Elmo\u2019s fire which has everything to do with the politics of the mob and nothing to do with ethics or policies.In this they seek to convince themselves that the surge in Scottish nationalism is a shortlived event that owes its occurrence to a peculiar set of historical circumstances and popular currents across the globe coming together haphazardly at the same time. God forbid that they would ever credit the supporters of Scottish nationalism with anything approaching political sophistication. They were also eager to insist that no true leftwinger could ever be a nationalist, as this would be to elevate the concerns of one group of people above all others. Thus they introduced the sulphuric whiff of racial supremacy into the mix.At times, this could be a compelling and seductive narrative. There were many on the left, myself included, who thought long and hard about backing a Yes vote in the independence referendum. How do you weigh your growing attachment to the idea of self-determination with a lifetime commitment to a global struggle of collectivism against capitalism? This view was often and eloquently expressed during the referendum by Douglas Alexander.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually isWhat persuaded many of us to back the Yes side last year, however, was a dawning conviction that an independent Scotland might become a hothouse of creatively radical ideas to counter the prevailing orthodoxy of greed, entitlement and stranger suspicion that underpinned the world\u2019s economic power structures. The arrogance and sneering unpleasantness of Alistair Darling just made it a little bit easier.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually is. And recent social attitude surveys have shown that, on questions of immigration and refugees, your average Scot is not the enlightened savant of popular liberal imagination. On education, policing and stewardship of the NHS, there are gaping holes in the SNP\u2019s ability to manage these areas. On reflection, though, I\u2019d say that those of us who voted Yes are still happy at having done so and will be eager to do so again when the opportunity arises.Speeches such as the one Nicola Sturgeon made last week in Glasgow on the HRA simply served to remind us why so many are still happy to support an independent Scotland. Similarly, they viewed her response earlier this month to the Syrian and African refugee crisis as echoing sentiments held deep within the breast of the nation.On human rights, the first minister gave her most unequivocal commitment to using all means possible to oppose the Tory plans to scrap the act and replace it with a UK Bill of Rights. The final arbiters in any disputes over our rights as citizens would thus pass into the hands of a collection of judges drawn from the tiny social and cultural elite who are so keen to scrap the HRA.The act prescribes a code of basic decency that obliges governments to protect ordinary citizens, as well as the weak and the vulnerable, from greed, self-interest and power. Underpinning it is a basic assumption that governments of the right and the left are, however, always susceptible to greed, self-interest and power and so must be saved from themselves.It\u2019s worth being reminded what the HRA holds to be sacrosanct: the right to employment and to a proper wage; the right to share in the economic bounty of the country; the right to protest against unsavoury corporate or government behaviour; to withdraw one\u2019s labour without fear of reprisal; to practise one\u2019s religion and to be respected and treated equally no matter your sexual orientation, skin colour or social background are the mere basics for peaceful co-existence among humans.It is no surprise then that the act is hated by those groups and interests who have most to gain by its scrapping, among them the present UK Conservative and Unionist party and their business backers. Many of them have been waiting for the day to dawn on a majority Conservative government so that they could resume the class war begun by Margaret Thatcher and interrupted when the act passed into UK law.They salivate at the prospect of growing their businesses free from the need properly to care for those who make their profits. And they live for the day when they can jettison those whom they deem to be obstacles to their goals of accumulating wealth or exercising influence. They are resentful and bitter at ever having been forced to spend lots of their money looking after sick and fragile people. Society was set up for the strongest and the fittest to prevail; there are no second prizes; you only get one chance. These are their mottos.Scotland had a chance last year to decouple itself from this deceit and the country blew it. Happily, it looks like we will soon enough be granted a second chance. More important than independence alone, though, is the knowledge that you are living in a country that takes seriously its duties to the weakest and smallest of its citizens.", "tags": ["Human Rights Act", "Human rights", "Law", "Politics", "UK news", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nicola Sturgeon"], "title": "Here we take our duties to the weakest seriously | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-09-19T23:05:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Gordon Brown would never forget what he was doing on the morning when the phone call came that would halt the downward trajectory of what remained of his public life. The news that Scotland had voted Yes had been broken to him gently early that day by Mr McDonald, the family odd-job man who lives in the converted coal-bunker at the foot of the garden.\u201cDamn and blast,\u201d he said and hurled an arrow at the face of Peter Mandelson, smiling crookedly at him from the centre of the dartboard. \u201cWill that be all, Mr Brown, sir?\u201d asked McDonald as he retreated gingerly towards the door. \u201cNot so fast, McDonald. Bring me my Raith Rovers match-day programmes \u2013 the 1994-95 season, I think. A chiel needs to be with his football memorabilia at a time like this.\u201dHe was just about to lift the phone and tear a strip off that fool Darling for getting him involved in the first place. Then he would phone Murray Foote, the wily Daily Record editor who had proposed that wretched, bloody vow. \u201cIt looks like you\u2019ve drawn it up on the back of a packet of Kensitas Club,\u201d he had protested. \u201cIt was a packet of Bennies, actually Gordon.\u201dBut the phone began to ring before he\u2019d had a chance to make the call.On the other end was his worst nightmare.\u201cHello Gordon, you old Unionist curmudgeon, it\u2019s Alex here,\u201d and Brown wanted to vomit. But Salmond\u2019s next words almost made his knees buckle. \u201cGordon, I want you to lead our negotiating team when we go to the Treasury next week and make our case for currency union. I know you argued against it, but all\u2019s fair in love and war and now your country needs you. Cameron, Osborne and that uppity colonial Carney, want to take our legs away before we can even walk. What do you say? Shall we discuss it over a couple of Salvadors at your Miners\u2019 Welfare Club? Maybe you could arrange a wee lock-in for privacy and I\u2019ll slip the barman a couple of monkeys. Let\u2019s call it quantitative easing, eh Gordon.\u201dBrown could actually hear his heart beating in his chest. Of course, he\u2019d advised against currency union, but it was just a stick to beat the Nationalists with, and even Carney had told him in private that there was no reason why an independent Scotland couldn\u2019t have the pound. \u201cAfter all, you Brits allowed Thatcher to pay the miners off and pay down the deficit by falsifying all those oil receipts for decades, so I think you owe them one.\u201d The Canadian was right of course, and Brown remembered erupting in fury when Osborne had fetched up in Edinburgh to tell the Scots the pound was English and let that be an end to it, like a medieval Saxon baron telling his tenants he had first call on their brides. The English had never in a million years expected a Yes vote and, faced with the reality of independence, they would simply have to cut a deal to avoid more uncertainty than was necessary in the money markets.Brown could see it all now. Of course he\u2019d have to swallow a bit of pride, but Murray at the Record could knock up another wee statement along the lines of: \u201cAfter a period of sober reflection, I have decided to accept Mr Salmond\u2019s offer of trying to secure the best possible currency deal for my country and my fellow citizens. I am honoured to represent my country at this crucial time in our history.\u201dAnd he imagined he was Gordon Dalziel swooping to head home that crucial League Cup goal against Celtic.Brown knew \u2013 all knew for God\u2019s sake \u2013 that there was nothing to stop Scotland declaring sterling to be its sole legal tender then borrowing it on the global markets to build up reserves.And they\u2019d be one of a family of nations which had adopted another state\u2019s currency. Scotland was also in a far healthier position than many other nations with a fledgling currency. It had a quarter of Europe\u2019s oil and gas, while whisky and tourism would also ensure a steady flow of sterling to Scotland, making it a net lender to England.Indeed, come to think of it, what was stopping Scotland creating its own currency, pegged to sterling? There\u2019d be no shortage of overseas investors in a new country with an educational hinterland, skilled and highly trained workforce and lucrative export markets.An enlightened array of tax incentives would help of course. He could scarce forbear to dream: Gordon Brown, the governor of the new National Bank of Scotland.Dear God in heaven, had it not turned out to be one of the best years of his life? As he emerged into the light of a watery dawn at Whitehall clutching his bit of paper and shouting to the waiting media: \u201cWe have a deal!\u201d he imagined Tony squatting on a gilded cushion in some desert kingdom trying grubbily to flog London real estate to bored Arab princes. The collapse of Greece meant of course that peaceful, prudent Scotland was welcomed into the EU and when Salmond announced that Scotland would open its borders to thousands more refugees, migrants and asylum-seekers its reputation grew in stature.Scotland also derived an economic dividend owing to the high number of these poor people who were qualified to work immediately and pay their way. Scotland\u2019s population projections were climbing and the rebirth of optimism and renewed national pride had lifted the economy.And when Gordon, freed from the restrictions of the 30-year rule, announced to his fellow Scots how much they had been charged in stealth charges to bail out the banks it made it easier for nation to accept the modest tax increases required to balance the books in the first crucial years of independence. And those MI5 plans to use Scotland as a human shield in the event of a nuclear attack finally did for Trident.It had taken him more than 30 years, but Gordon Brown had learned how to truly love his country again and discovered his lost socialist roots in the process.Perhaps they would name a new national dance after him, he mused with a chuckle: The Quite Affable Gordon Now, Thank You Very Much.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "The day Scotland said Yes and Mr Brown scored | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-09-18T10:40:24Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was the day that was supposed to resolve Scotland\u2019s constitutional future forever, or so pundits had claimed. Scotland would reject independence in great numbers. Their very raison d\u2019etre defeated, the Scottish National party would be consigned to irrelevance. The union would be safe for a generation or longer.This is politics according to the \u201cVery Serious People\u201d of the commentariat: dramatic and lasting challenges to the prevailing political consensus are treated as impossible, absurd, or childish fantasies. But we now know that what was supposed to happen in Scotland a year ago \u2013 when far more Scots voted for independence than was originally predicted \u2013 did not come to pass.The SNP is determined to re-run the independence referendum when it believes there is an opportune momentThe narrative that democracy is in permanent decline across the western world \u2013 falling voter turnout, dropping party membership, general disengagement \u2013 was shown to be reversible. One in 50 Scottish adults have joined the SNP, voter turnout surged, Scotland became deeply politicised as a country, and the SNP went from six Westminster seats in 2010 to winning 56 in May, nearly extinguishing all of its rivals.But Scotland is still rushing for the exits. Indeed, the SNP is determined to re-run the independence referendum when it believes there is an opportune moment: expect Nicola Sturgeon to keep telling the prime minister that he lives on \u201cborrowed time\u201d.Support for independence has always been mistakenly portrayed as Braveheart-style nationalism. I do not think that my SNP-voting English uncles in Edinburgh are Scottish nationalists. It is part of a general revolt against political elites across the western world which manifests itself in fearful ways (like Ukip) or optimistic ways (like Podemos in Spain): disillusionment with an unjust social order; anger at the Tories\u2019 legacy; and despair with a Labour party that vacated its progressive role and lined up with the Conservatives in a campaign of fear. Related: Corbyn has re-energised Labour in Scotland \u2013 but is it too late? Much debate has centred on whether a Jeremy Corbyn-led Labour party \u2013 itself a product of the same sort of political revolt as the SNP \u2013 can change the dynamics in Scotland. It is difficult to understate how angry many ex-Labour voters are. The SNP is polling around 60% for next May\u2019s Holyrood election; Labour is on about a third of that. The idea that that can be turned around in eight months is absurd.Anecdotally, the reaction to Corbyn\u2019s victory among some ex-Labour voters in Scotland has been along the lines of \u201cwell done on that, wish him the best of luck, hope he can work with the SNP\u201d. In other words, they have emotionally severed themselves from Labour. Some make a distinction between Labour at the national level, and Scottish Labour. Others have a different perspective: it could just be that Labour has come home to them. Certainly, Labour needs to grovel before the people of Scotland, and work to win back its deeply alienated support.Scotland is running out of patience with Tory rule. Unless Labour can convince Scotland, then independence is surely an inevitable \u201cwhen\u201d rather than an \u201cif\u201d. And if so, Britain\u2019s elite will have caused such alienation among its own people, that a chunk of them will opt to leave. That surely remains the lesson a year on.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Nicola Sturgeon", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Jeremy Corbyn"], "title": "Only a convincing Labour party stands between Scotland and independence | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2015-08-01T23:03:05Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Much still has to be done before Nicola Sturgeon realises her dream of making Scotland the most enlightened and socially just country on the planet. In normal circumstances, this would be no easy task but it\u2019s rendered more difficult by the fact that Scotland currently possesses a police force not fit for a banana republic.For those who have observed the diminishing of Scotland\u2019s police force from a world-renowned beacon of brusque efficiency to its current status as a national pantomime act the last few years have been painful. Nothing, though, which had previously occurred in the shambolic reign of Stephen House, chief constable of Police Scotland, matched the tragic incompetence of his force\u2019s performance in July.Last week, the funeral took place of Lamara Bell, the young mother of two who lay undiscovered for three days while seriously injured next to her dead boyfriend in their car after police failed to respond to a report of a motorway crash. Lamara and her partner, John Yuill, 28, had been reported missing by friends after they were last seen early on 5 July. A few hours later, a call was made to police reporting that the couple\u2019s car had left the road on the M9 near Bannockburn. It emerged that the initial report was not entered into the police system and so the usual independent investigation is now underway. Like all other police investigations though, it\u2019s not really independent because it will be conducted by the police themselves.Regrettably, the result of this \u201cindependent\u201d investigation has already been compromised by House who, in a desperately inappropriate attempt to hold on to his job, immediately blamed a police systems operator for not processing the fateful call. By attempting to apportion blame so quickly after the preventable death of two young people, he displayed the crass lack of judgment and arrogance that have been the defining characteristics of his reign.We have come to expect this from an individual for whom the normal rules of accountability in high public office do not seem to apply. We expect better from his boss, Scotland\u2019s justice minister, Michael Matheson, who is already exhibiting signs of a failure to control the police chief that eventually did for his predecessor, Kenny MacAskill. Matheson, unforgivably, also went down the route of making a scapegoat of a nameless and hapless junior employee before the \u201cindependent\u201d\u2019 investigation was even underway. There\u2019s a reason why the word \u201cjustice\u201d is included in your ministerial title, Michael.Despite the usual claims from Police Scotland sources that the tragedy was merely an isolated blip in an otherwise well-oiled machine, reports began to emerge from the police call centre at Bilston Glen, which took the original message about the M9 crash, about the chaotic running of it, low staff morale and a disturbingly high-pressure environment. This was later confirmed by the revelation that absenteeism rates were running at 10%. When it was later revealed that a police officer had left a message on the mobile phone of Lamara Bell 10 days after her death it seemed that what little confidence remained in Police Scotland as an effective organisation was evaporating. Yet still House clings to his job, despite having given notice that he will be stepping down voluntarily late next year.Even if Police Scotland were an efficiently run entity enjoying widespread public support, such a cocktail of error, denial and managerial incompetence would have placed the chief constable\u2019s future in jeopardy. This, though, is a dysfunctional organisation controlled by a man who is running it like his own private army. Last week, United Nations human rights advisers said that Police Scotland\u2019s enthusiastic deployment of stop-and-search powers was in danger of breaching international law.Under House, Scottish police seem to have adopted a \u201cscotched earth\u201d approach to apprehending innocent members of the public without any suspicion of a crime. Eighty-three children under the age of 11 were stopped and searched in six months last year without any proof of a crime. This figure dwarfed all other comparable figures anywhere in the UK.The National Union of Journalists has also called on Police Scotland to confirm or deny that it has been deploying illegal surveillance devices on at least two journalists in a bid to discover the identity of sources. Paul Hutcheon, the investigations editor of the Sunday Herald and a journalist who has a record of exposing police malpractice over several years, has also requested sight of all documentation currently held on him by Police Scotland.The haste with which the culture and attitudes of the police in Scotland have altered under the chief constable\u2019s tenure is staggering. Not long ago the police in Scotland were regarded as a genial but no-nonsense outfit deploying gruff common sense to keep our communities safe. Now it seems that the government and the police regard Scotland as an unstable rogue state constantly on the verge of violent upheaval. House\u2019s introduction of armed police in daylight among ordinary people going about the business of their day was further proof that Scotland has a chief constable who thinks he\u2019s Wyatt Earp.It was, though, the death in police custody of Sheku Bayoh following an incident in Kirkcaldy that has provided a sinister undertone to issues surrounding the culture and attitudes of our national police force. The 31-year-old father of two had no previous history of violence yet his family were subjected to an astonishing volley of criticism from a solicitor representing the Scottish Police Federation when a period of silence would have been more appropriate. The family of Mr Bayoh have since made their own investigations and claim that several different versions of the incident were given by the police; that their 5ft 10ins, 12st 10lb son was held down by five police officers including one weighing in at 25st and 6ft 4ins tall. He was not carrying a weapon as police later claimed and nor was there any question of a threat to national security as had also been suggested.A full judicial inquiry into the customs and practices of Police Scotland is the necessary second step towards restoring some confidence and trust among the public for this dysfunctional force that has become a law unto itself. The first step must be the immediate and long overdue resignation of Stephen House.", "tags": ["Police", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Police Scotland is a lamentable shambles | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-07-22T06:30:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police Scotland is pressing for a single, centralised CCTV network to cover the country\u2019s streets, shops and public spaces after warning most of the current cameras are ageing, unreliable and potentially unlawful.The force has told Scottish ministers it wants to scrap what it sees as an outdated, \u201cpiecemeal\u201d system of local, decentralised control over 2,800 CCTV cameras. It instead wants a single police-run national network using high-definition digital cameras, installed at a cost of at least \u00a310m.The proposal is the central recommendation of a confidential Police Scotland review from 2013 that warns many of Scotland\u2019s ageing CCTV systems are close to collapse; a large number are kept running using second-hand parts bought at high cost and are at risk of \u201cinstant failure\u201d, it claims.Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmenThe document, published on Wednesday by the investigative website the Ferret after it was released under freedom of information legislation, also reveals that 16 unnamed local councils have failed to carry out any data-protection audits of their CCTV networks.It admits that in several areas in the old Grampian force area, and in Renfrewshire, where body cameras worn by police officers were tested, the force may be breaching data protection laws.An unredacted version of the report states: \u201cThe management of these devices at a number of different offices is questionable in regards to compliance with the Information Commissionaires [sic] Office guidance and legislative requirements.\u201d The call for a single police-controlled national network and revelations about the condition of the current CCTV network \u2013 identified in the report as \u201cpublic space\u201d cameras covering places such as roads, junctions, shopping areas, parks and squares, alarmed opposition parties and privacy campaigners.The Scottish Liberal Democrats have tabled parliamentary questions at Holyrood asking ministers to confirm that Scotland\u2019s CCTV network, unlike in England and Wales, is unregulated and unaudited. Ministers have previously said a voluntary code was sufficient. Willie Rennie, the Scottish Lib Dem leader, who has repeatedly attacked the centralisation of policing in Scotland, said: \u201cThe Scottish government should follow the UK government and take steps to regulate CCTV cameras to prevent inappropriate surveillance in our community. Decent, law-abiding people deserve assurances that someone is watching the watchmen.\u201cThe system needs an urgent overhaul, but I am far from convinced that the proposed national network is the answer, as it poses a number of questions about privacy, especially as it might be used in concert with new, unregulated facial-recognition technology.\u201dPol Clementsmith, from the privacy campaign Open Rights Group, told the Ferret: \u201cClear lines must be drawn in the digital sand otherwise we are all headed towards a situation where we\u2019re sleepwalking into a surveillance state.\u201cThis document lays bare an ongoing catalogue of errors, whereby Police Scotland and a number of local authorities are potentially breaching data-protection laws on a daily basis.\u201dPolice Scotland confirmed it was in \u201congoing dialogue\u201d with Scottish ministers, councils and CCTV partnerships to pursue its plan for an upgraded national network. The report said CCTV was an essential policing tool, but was also give public reassurance, helping tackle anti-social behaviour.The review had \u201cidentified the age of the current equipment and the advances that have been made in technology mean that an injection of capital funding will be required to update the ageing systems,\u201d a police spokesman said.But the Scottish government appeared to distance itself from the call for a single national system, insisting that it was encouraging the police to work with councils on co-funding CCTV. \u201cThe detail contained in the Public Space CCTV Review is a matter for Police Scotland who carried out the review,\u201d a spokeswoman said.The Police Scotland review found 80% of the country\u2019s public-space CCTV cameras \u2013 a definition that excludes schools, hospitals and housing association land, were old analogue systems. And 85% of the \u201cmatrices\u201d \u2013 the recording, control systems and TV monitors that back them up, were analogue, while 80% also used analogue communications systems. While nearly all the cameras were now hybrids, with retrofitted digital encoders, they were vulnerable to complete failure if analogue parts broke down. Related: Police stress costs thousands of working days in Scotland \u201cIt is clear that an investment into the landscape of public space CCTV is required now at an urgent pace. Systems across the country are already becoming obsolete and redundant,\u201d it reports, adding later: \u201cThere is a major piece of work required to turnaround failing systems, and to keep them fit for purpose.\u201d At 2013 prices, it would cost roughly \u00a33.8m to update all the analogue matrices and another \u00a35.75m to replace the analogue cameras, at some \u00a32,500 each, with ultra-high-definition Japanese cameras. There were would be further, unknown costs of using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile systems to upgrade their communications. The report said Police Scotland would focus on putting the newest static cameras on areas of high footfall and districts with high numbers of pubs and night clubs \u2013 \u201careas of night-time economy\u201d. But \u201crapid deployment cameras\u201d using Wi-Fi or 3G mobile networks would increase dramatically in number. ", "tags": ["Scotland", "Surveillance", "UK news", "Technology", "Police"], "title": "Police Scotland pushes for centralised CCTV network"},{"date": "2015-09-26T23:09:03Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "To observe the acquiescent wing of the Labour party expressing more dismay at the election of a genuine leftwinger as leader than about Tory proposals to scrap the Human Rights Act (HRA) tells you why they are in retreat right across the party. As one SNP insider said to me last week: \u201cAll the mild left luvvies are descending on our conference in Aberdeen because they are scared of getting kicked around their own house this autumn.\u201dIn the run-up to the independence referendum and to May\u2019s general election, Conservative unionists and their allies within Labour attempted to blacken the SNP\u2019s liberal credentials by association. Their trick was to explain the astonishing surge in support for the SNP by linking it with the rise of \u201cextremism\u201d across the globe, including Donald Trump\u2019s tilt at the White House and the rise of the right in Belgium. It\u2019s a geo-political St Elmo\u2019s fire which has everything to do with the politics of the mob and nothing to do with ethics or policies.In this they seek to convince themselves that the surge in Scottish nationalism is a shortlived event that owes its occurrence to a peculiar set of historical circumstances and popular currents across the globe coming together haphazardly at the same time. God forbid that they would ever credit the supporters of Scottish nationalism with anything approaching political sophistication. They were also eager to insist that no true leftwinger could ever be a nationalist, as this would be to elevate the concerns of one group of people above all others. Thus they introduced the sulphuric whiff of racial supremacy into the mix.At times, this could be a compelling and seductive narrative. There were many on the left, myself included, who thought long and hard about backing a Yes vote in the independence referendum. How do you weigh your growing attachment to the idea of self-determination with a lifetime commitment to a global struggle of collectivism against capitalism? This view was often and eloquently expressed during the referendum by Douglas Alexander.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually isWhat persuaded many of us to back the Yes side last year, however, was a dawning conviction that an independent Scotland might become a hothouse of creatively radical ideas to counter the prevailing orthodoxy of greed, entitlement and stranger suspicion that underpinned the world\u2019s economic power structures. The arrogance and sneering unpleasantness of Alistair Darling just made it a little bit easier.In Scotland we are currently engaged in debate as to just how radical the SNP actually is. And recent social attitude surveys have shown that, on questions of immigration and refugees, your average Scot is not the enlightened savant of popular liberal imagination. On education, policing and stewardship of the NHS, there are gaping holes in the SNP\u2019s ability to manage these areas. On reflection, though, I\u2019d say that those of us who voted Yes are still happy at having done so and will be eager to do so again when the opportunity arises.Speeches such as the one Nicola Sturgeon made last week in Glasgow on the HRA simply served to remind us why so many are still happy to support an independent Scotland. Similarly, they viewed her response earlier this month to the Syrian and African refugee crisis as echoing sentiments held deep within the breast of the nation.On human rights, the first minister gave her most unequivocal commitment to using all means possible to oppose the Tory plans to scrap the act and replace it with a UK Bill of Rights. The final arbiters in any disputes over our rights as citizens would thus pass into the hands of a collection of judges drawn from the tiny social and cultural elite who are so keen to scrap the HRA.The act prescribes a code of basic decency that obliges governments to protect ordinary citizens, as well as the weak and the vulnerable, from greed, self-interest and power. Underpinning it is a basic assumption that governments of the right and the left are, however, always susceptible to greed, self-interest and power and so must be saved from themselves.It\u2019s worth being reminded what the HRA holds to be sacrosanct: the right to employment and to a proper wage; the right to share in the economic bounty of the country; the right to protest against unsavoury corporate or government behaviour; to withdraw one\u2019s labour without fear of reprisal; to practise one\u2019s religion and to be respected and treated equally no matter your sexual orientation, skin colour or social background are the mere basics for peaceful co-existence among humans.It is no surprise then that the act is hated by those groups and interests who have most to gain by its scrapping, among them the present UK Conservative and Unionist party and their business backers. Many of them have been waiting for the day to dawn on a majority Conservative government so that they could resume the class war begun by Margaret Thatcher and interrupted when the act passed into UK law.They salivate at the prospect of growing their businesses free from the need properly to care for those who make their profits. And they live for the day when they can jettison those whom they deem to be obstacles to their goals of accumulating wealth or exercising influence. They are resentful and bitter at ever having been forced to spend lots of their money looking after sick and fragile people. Society was set up for the strongest and the fittest to prevail; there are no second prizes; you only get one chance. These are their mottos.Scotland had a chance last year to decouple itself from this deceit and the country blew it. Happily, it looks like we will soon enough be granted a second chance. More important than independence alone, though, is the knowledge that you are living in a country that takes seriously its duties to the weakest and smallest of its citizens.", "tags": ["Human Rights Act", "Human rights", "Law", "Politics", "UK news", "Scotland", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nicola Sturgeon"], "title": "Here we take our duties to the weakest seriously | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-09-19T23:05:09Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Gordon Brown would never forget what he was doing on the morning when the phone call came that would halt the downward trajectory of what remained of his public life. The news that Scotland had voted Yes had been broken to him gently early that day by Mr McDonald, the family odd-job man who lives in the converted coal-bunker at the foot of the garden.\u201cDamn and blast,\u201d he said and hurled an arrow at the face of Peter Mandelson, smiling crookedly at him from the centre of the dartboard. \u201cWill that be all, Mr Brown, sir?\u201d asked McDonald as he retreated gingerly towards the door. \u201cNot so fast, McDonald. Bring me my Raith Rovers match-day programmes \u2013 the 1994-95 season, I think. A chiel needs to be with his football memorabilia at a time like this.\u201dHe was just about to lift the phone and tear a strip off that fool Darling for getting him involved in the first place. Then he would phone Murray Foote, the wily Daily Record editor who had proposed that wretched, bloody vow. \u201cIt looks like you\u2019ve drawn it up on the back of a packet of Kensitas Club,\u201d he had protested. \u201cIt was a packet of Bennies, actually Gordon.\u201dBut the phone began to ring before he\u2019d had a chance to make the call.On the other end was his worst nightmare.\u201cHello Gordon, you old Unionist curmudgeon, it\u2019s Alex here,\u201d and Brown wanted to vomit. But Salmond\u2019s next words almost made his knees buckle. \u201cGordon, I want you to lead our negotiating team when we go to the Treasury next week and make our case for currency union. I know you argued against it, but all\u2019s fair in love and war and now your country needs you. Cameron, Osborne and that uppity colonial Carney, want to take our legs away before we can even walk. What do you say? Shall we discuss it over a couple of Salvadors at your Miners\u2019 Welfare Club? Maybe you could arrange a wee lock-in for privacy and I\u2019ll slip the barman a couple of monkeys. Let\u2019s call it quantitative easing, eh Gordon.\u201dBrown could actually hear his heart beating in his chest. Of course, he\u2019d advised against currency union, but it was just a stick to beat the Nationalists with, and even Carney had told him in private that there was no reason why an independent Scotland couldn\u2019t have the pound. \u201cAfter all, you Brits allowed Thatcher to pay the miners off and pay down the deficit by falsifying all those oil receipts for decades, so I think you owe them one.\u201d The Canadian was right of course, and Brown remembered erupting in fury when Osborne had fetched up in Edinburgh to tell the Scots the pound was English and let that be an end to it, like a medieval Saxon baron telling his tenants he had first call on their brides. The English had never in a million years expected a Yes vote and, faced with the reality of independence, they would simply have to cut a deal to avoid more uncertainty than was necessary in the money markets.Brown could see it all now. Of course he\u2019d have to swallow a bit of pride, but Murray at the Record could knock up another wee statement along the lines of: \u201cAfter a period of sober reflection, I have decided to accept Mr Salmond\u2019s offer of trying to secure the best possible currency deal for my country and my fellow citizens. I am honoured to represent my country at this crucial time in our history.\u201dAnd he imagined he was Gordon Dalziel swooping to head home that crucial League Cup goal against Celtic.Brown knew \u2013 all knew for God\u2019s sake \u2013 that there was nothing to stop Scotland declaring sterling to be its sole legal tender then borrowing it on the global markets to build up reserves.And they\u2019d be one of a family of nations which had adopted another state\u2019s currency. Scotland was also in a far healthier position than many other nations with a fledgling currency. It had a quarter of Europe\u2019s oil and gas, while whisky and tourism would also ensure a steady flow of sterling to Scotland, making it a net lender to England.Indeed, come to think of it, what was stopping Scotland creating its own currency, pegged to sterling? There\u2019d be no shortage of overseas investors in a new country with an educational hinterland, skilled and highly trained workforce and lucrative export markets.An enlightened array of tax incentives would help of course. He could scarce forbear to dream: Gordon Brown, the governor of the new National Bank of Scotland.Dear God in heaven, had it not turned out to be one of the best years of his life? As he emerged into the light of a watery dawn at Whitehall clutching his bit of paper and shouting to the waiting media: \u201cWe have a deal!\u201d he imagined Tony squatting on a gilded cushion in some desert kingdom trying grubbily to flog London real estate to bored Arab princes. The collapse of Greece meant of course that peaceful, prudent Scotland was welcomed into the EU and when Salmond announced that Scotland would open its borders to thousands more refugees, migrants and asylum-seekers its reputation grew in stature.Scotland also derived an economic dividend owing to the high number of these poor people who were qualified to work immediately and pay their way. Scotland\u2019s population projections were climbing and the rebirth of optimism and renewed national pride had lifted the economy.And when Gordon, freed from the restrictions of the 30-year rule, announced to his fellow Scots how much they had been charged in stealth charges to bail out the banks it made it easier for nation to accept the modest tax increases required to balance the books in the first crucial years of independence. And those MI5 plans to use Scotland as a human shield in the event of a nuclear attack finally did for Trident.It had taken him more than 30 years, but Gordon Brown had learned how to truly love his country again and discovered his lost socialist roots in the process.Perhaps they would name a new national dance after him, he mused with a chuckle: The Quite Affable Gordon Now, Thank You Very Much.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Gordon Brown", "Alex Salmond", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics"], "title": "The day Scotland said Yes and Mr Brown scored | Kevin McKenna"},{"date": "2015-09-18T10:40:24Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "It was the day that was supposed to resolve Scotland\u2019s constitutional future forever, or so pundits had claimed. Scotland would reject independence in great numbers. Their very raison d\u2019etre defeated, the Scottish National party would be consigned to irrelevance. The union would be safe for a generation or longer.This is politics according to the \u201cVery Serious People\u201d of the commentariat: dramatic and lasting challenges to the prevailing political consensus are treated as impossible, absurd, or childish fantasies. But we now know that what was supposed to happen in Scotland a year ago \u2013 when far more Scots voted for independence than was originally predicted \u2013 did not come to pass.The SNP is determined to re-run the independence referendum when it believes there is an opportune momentThe narrative that democracy is in permanent decline across the western world \u2013 falling voter turnout, dropping party membership, general disengagement \u2013 was shown to be reversible. One in 50 Scottish adults have joined the SNP, voter turnout surged, Scotland became deeply politicised as a country, and the SNP went from six Westminster seats in 2010 to winning 56 in May, nearly extinguishing all of its rivals.But Scotland is still rushing for the exits. Indeed, the SNP is determined to re-run the independence referendum when it believes there is an opportune moment: expect Nicola Sturgeon to keep telling the prime minister that he lives on \u201cborrowed time\u201d.Support for independence has always been mistakenly portrayed as Braveheart-style nationalism. I do not think that my SNP-voting English uncles in Edinburgh are Scottish nationalists. It is part of a general revolt against political elites across the western world which manifests itself in fearful ways (like Ukip) or optimistic ways (like Podemos in Spain): disillusionment with an unjust social order; anger at the Tories\u2019 legacy; and despair with a Labour party that vacated its progressive role and lined up with the Conservatives in a campaign of fear. Related: Corbyn has re-energised Labour in Scotland \u2013 but is it too late? Much debate has centred on whether a Jeremy Corbyn-led Labour party \u2013 itself a product of the same sort of political revolt as the SNP \u2013 can change the dynamics in Scotland. It is difficult to understate how angry many ex-Labour voters are. The SNP is polling around 60% for next May\u2019s Holyrood election; Labour is on about a third of that. The idea that that can be turned around in eight months is absurd.Anecdotally, the reaction to Corbyn\u2019s victory among some ex-Labour voters in Scotland has been along the lines of \u201cwell done on that, wish him the best of luck, hope he can work with the SNP\u201d. In other words, they have emotionally severed themselves from Labour. Some make a distinction between Labour at the national level, and Scottish Labour. Others have a different perspective: it could just be that Labour has come home to them. Certainly, Labour needs to grovel before the people of Scotland, and work to win back its deeply alienated support.Scotland is running out of patience with Tory rule. Unless Labour can convince Scotland, then independence is surely an inevitable \u201cwhen\u201d rather than an \u201cif\u201d. And if so, Britain\u2019s elite will have caused such alienation among its own people, that a chunk of them will opt to leave. That surely remains the lesson a year on.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Nicola Sturgeon", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Labour", "Jeremy Corbyn"], "title": "Only a convincing Labour party stands between Scotland and independence | Owen Jones"},{"date": "2015-09-16T06:00:20Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "A former civil servant who played a pivotal role in Whitehall\u2019s campaign against Scottish independence has said Scotland should be offered \u201chome rule\u201d within the UK, to kill off continuing calls for another referendum.Alun Evans, who recently left his post as director of the Scotland Office to become chief executive at the British Academy, told the Guardian he believes the UK government needs to make a \u201cbig, bold offer\u201d in response to the surge in Scottish National party support since the referendum.\u201cIf the pro-UK parties and the UK government put on the table, \u2018yes, we will enter into discussions around home rule\u2019, that would straight away seize the initiative from the SNP and the Scottish government. They would be on the back foot,\u201d he said. A plan for home rule, otherwise known as devo max or full fiscal autonomy, would be supported by some 80% of the Scottish electorate, Evans said. \u201cAnd it would put an end to the plans for independence for many years. I\u2019m quite sure that would be the outcome if we put it on the table.\u201dEvans will set out that proposal in London later on Wednesday in his first speech since taking over at the British Academy, to mark the first anniversary on Friday of last September\u2019s referendum. The SNP and yes campaign lost the referendum by 55% to 45%, but immediately seized the initiative after Labour imploded and David Cameron unveiled UK government plans to cut Scottish voting power at Westminster in return for extra powers for the Scottish parliament. Related: Kezia Dugdale can win back victory for Labour in Scotland | John McTernan Under Nicola Sturgeon\u2019s leadership as first minister, the SNP won a remarkable 56 out of Scotland\u2019s 59 seats at the general election, leading Sturgeon and her predecessor Alex Salmond to drop their pledge before the referendum that it was a \u201conce in a generation\u201d event. Scottish ministers will argue in Holyrood on Wednesday that the further powers on offer are still too weak, but SNP demands for full fiscal autonomy and the quest for independence have lost substantial force after North Sea oil prices plunged to below $50 a barrel, weakening Scotland\u2019s finances. Sturgeon told STV on Monday she had no intention of staging another referendum which the yes campaign was destined to lose. \u201cI don\u2019t ever want to feel what I felt in the early hours of 19 September,\u201d she said. \u201cImmediately afterwards, the mood was one of utter devastation and I felt that personally. We were all grief-stricken.\u201cIf we are going to have another independence referendum I want to know there is support in Scotland for independence that means that referendum is going to be successful.\u201dThere will be no debate on staging a new referendum at next month\u2019s SNP annual conference: Sturgeon has instead promised to set out the likely triggers for a second vote in the party\u2019s manifesto for the Holyrood elections next May, signalling it might happen during the next five years.Evans, who oversaw the Edinburgh agreement to hold last year\u2019s referendum, and helped craft the UK government\u2019s referendum campaign and its input into last winter\u2019s Smith commission on further powers for Holyrood, said he now believed the political challenge facing the UK has changed.He thought the UK government was wrong to veto a third option at the referendum, which would offer Scottish voters home rule rather than full independence. \u201cWith the benefit of hindsight, if a third option had been on the ballot paper it would\u2019ve won a crushing victory and we wouldn\u2019t be in the position we are at the moment,\u201d Evans said. While the falling oil price was hugely important, \u201cthe point I\u2019m making is that the terms have changed since the referendum, if only because you\u2019ve now got 56 SNP MPs down here in London whereas before we had six. The idea that everything will remain the same because the oil price is down to $50 seems to me rather fanciful.\u201d\u201cSince I have become chief executive of the British Academy, and looked back at some of these things, it has struck me that the UK and [the] UK parties tend to be playing catch-up,\u201d he said. \u201cThe SNP is always setting the agenda and sometimes we have to put things on the table and get ahead of the curve.\u201dEvans added: \u201cI think the circumstances have changed, so the options need to change.\u201d The UK, \u201ccan continue with the incremental approach or make a bigger, bolder offer and say yes, there\u2019s a case to see full fiscal autonomy\u201d.His British Academy speech is expected to impose conditions on Scottish home rule \u2013 a concept backed by the Liberal Democrats and campaigners such as Reform Scotland \u2013 to ensure it is a final, lasting settlement: Scotland\u2019s representation in the Commons should be cut, perhaps by half; a deal would lead to an end to further independence referendums; and home rule would be honoured by the UK, perhaps in the form of a new treaty of union. ", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Politics", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Nicola Sturgeon", "Scottish National party (SNP)"], "title": "Former Scotland Office director argues for home rule"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T14:50:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Social enterprise has a long and proud history in Scotland but the results of the country\u2019s first comprehensive sector census (pdf) show that it is thriving today as never before. We asked Gerry Higgins, the CEO of Glasgow-based CEIS and a founder of the Social Enterprise World Forum, to draw on his 30 years of experience in explaining some of the most striking findings. What has the census told you about social enterprise in your country?  Related: What is the critical mass needed for a social enterprise to make a difference? It has provided a wealth of evidence about the scale, characteristics, contribution and aspirations of the social enterprise community. It has also reaffirmed the growing significance of social enterprise to our communities.Social enterprises have been shown to be active in almost every part of the economy, from the creative industries to sustainable tourism. Despite the historical roots of social enterprise, many of those active today have only emerged over the last decade and the pace of new enterprise formation appears to be accelerating each year.As Jonathan Coburn of Social Value Lab has noted, \u201cthe overall scale of the social enterprise sector has come as a surprise to many; in terms of the number of social enterprises operating, their employment and economic contribution. The figures suggest a much larger sector than previously thought and one that appears to be growing fast.\u201dA large part of the social enterprise community in Scotland has grown under the radar over many years. It comprises small and micro enterprises strongly rooted in a single place \u2013 villages, towns or neighbourhoods \u2013 that manage important amenities and services such as community buildings, childcare and so on. \"Social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing.\"22% of Scottish social enterprises are based in the highlands and islands, which are home to only 9% of the population. What accounts for this? In these areas social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing. It is critical to the region. This also reflects 50 years of support from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), an agency that recognised the significance of social enterprise as a sustainable economic model long before others. HIE understands that in communities with challenges of remoteness and distance from markets, the social and community enterprise sector has intrinsic importance. In these communities, the connections between businesses and communities are so close and there is an innate sense of people \u201cdoing things for themselves\u201d which drives a vibrant social economy.The social enterprise business model is an active choice for many of the region\u2019s most innovative entrepreneurs and receives direct support, tailored products and services, account management and capital investment from HIE. The agency also provides support so that the leadership, innovation and the business dimensions of the sector can be strengthened.60% of social enterprises are led by women and more than 70% report that more than half their employees are female. Why are they so much more inclusive than traditional businesses? Related: Top tips from Thailand on starting a successful social enterprise Gender equality is a longstanding problem in the commercial sector. For instance, only 9% of executive directorships in FTSE100 companies are held by women (pdf). In Scotland and elsewhere however, social enterprise appears not to have a glass ceiling preventing female professionals to progress to leadership levels. Or as the Social Enterprise UK 2013 sector survey noted, \u201csocial enterprise is the natural home of the female entrepreneur.\u201dThe high participation rate of women in the sector may be partially due to the fact that social enterprises tend not to match commercial sector pay levels but often offer a greater range of secondary benefits. Flexible working is commonplace and many have family friendly working conditions which is a critical factor for many female employees. Whether gender equality leads to democratic workplaces or vice versa, the traditions and values of social enterprise result in more participative and less hierarchical workplaces than in the commercial sector. These workplaces are based on equality, openness and fairness and this leads to better productivity and lower turnover as employees are engaged and motivated.How and why has the Scottish government supported the sector?The Scottish government has supported social enterprise over the last decade, with political leadership from the current deputy first minister and cabinet secretary for finance and the economy, John Swinney. It has worked with the sector to develop an ecosystem for social enterprise, investing in business support, social investment, entrepreneurship development, leadership and education, opening markets and internationalisation. There are a range of reasons for this support. The census points to a sector that has shown resilience in the face of economic recession and with employment now returning to pre-recession levels, jobs created in social enterprises are more likely to have balance in terms of equality, gender and pay.  Related: Are Anglo-American social enterprise models stunting the social economy\u2019s growth? Less cohesive economies don\u2019t do as well because parts of society aren\u2019t benefiting. Therefore one of the key roles of social enterprise is to provide pathways to employment for a wide range of people, especially those who need support. The economy is expected to grow in the next decade but if the gap between rich and poor widens in this period, the national economic strategy will have failed. Social enterprise bridges economic and social pillars and has a unique opportunity to assist the national economy to create opportunities where conventional businesses will not. After a decade of sector and government collaboration, work is now underway to co-produce a social enterprise strategy to reflect the potential and contribution of the sector through to 2025.What do you hope the census will achieve? Having this wealth of evidence at our disposal, the next stage is to continue to build a collective response, within government and across those organisations that represent and support the sector. It enables us to set priorities and make informed choices about where we must invest to grow the sector. It also enables us to tell a convincing story about the sector and its potential, which is essential if we are to broaden the sources of support and finance available.Download Social Enterprise in Scotland: Census 2015 here.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Social enterprise takes centre stage in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T14:50:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Social enterprise has a long and proud history in Scotland but the results of the country\u2019s first comprehensive sector census (pdf) show that it is thriving today as never before. We asked Gerry Higgins, the CEO of Glasgow-based CEIS and a founder of the Social Enterprise World Forum, to draw on his 30 years of experience in explaining some of the most striking findings. What has the census told you about social enterprise in your country?  Related: What is the critical mass needed for a social enterprise to make a difference? It has provided a wealth of evidence about the scale, characteristics, contribution and aspirations of the social enterprise community. It has also reaffirmed the growing significance of social enterprise to our communities.Social enterprises have been shown to be active in almost every part of the economy, from the creative industries to sustainable tourism. Despite the historical roots of social enterprise, many of those active today have only emerged over the last decade and the pace of new enterprise formation appears to be accelerating each year.As Jonathan Coburn of Social Value Lab has noted, \u201cthe overall scale of the social enterprise sector has come as a surprise to many; in terms of the number of social enterprises operating, their employment and economic contribution. The figures suggest a much larger sector than previously thought and one that appears to be growing fast.\u201dA large part of the social enterprise community in Scotland has grown under the radar over many years. It comprises small and micro enterprises strongly rooted in a single place \u2013 villages, towns or neighbourhoods \u2013 that manage important amenities and services such as community buildings, childcare and so on. \"Social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing.\"22% of Scottish social enterprises are based in the highlands and islands, which are home to only 9% of the population. What accounts for this? In these areas social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing. It is critical to the region. This also reflects 50 years of support from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), an agency that recognised the significance of social enterprise as a sustainable economic model long before others. HIE understands that in communities with challenges of remoteness and distance from markets, the social and community enterprise sector has intrinsic importance. In these communities, the connections between businesses and communities are so close and there is an innate sense of people \u201cdoing things for themselves\u201d which drives a vibrant social economy.The social enterprise business model is an active choice for many of the region\u2019s most innovative entrepreneurs and receives direct support, tailored products and services, account management and capital investment from HIE. The agency also provides support so that the leadership, innovation and the business dimensions of the sector can be strengthened.60% of social enterprises are led by women and more than 70% report that more than half their employees are female. Why are they so much more inclusive than traditional businesses? Related: Top tips from Thailand on starting a successful social enterprise Gender equality is a longstanding problem in the commercial sector. For instance, only 9% of executive directorships in FTSE100 companies are held by women (pdf). In Scotland and elsewhere however, social enterprise appears not to have a glass ceiling preventing female professionals to progress to leadership levels. Or as the Social Enterprise UK 2013 sector survey noted, \u201csocial enterprise is the natural home of the female entrepreneur.\u201dThe high participation rate of women in the sector may be partially due to the fact that social enterprises tend not to match commercial sector pay levels but often offer a greater range of secondary benefits. Flexible working is commonplace and many have family friendly working conditions which is a critical factor for many female employees. Whether gender equality leads to democratic workplaces or vice versa, the traditions and values of social enterprise result in more participative and less hierarchical workplaces than in the commercial sector. These workplaces are based on equality, openness and fairness and this leads to better productivity and lower turnover as employees are engaged and motivated.How and why has the Scottish government supported the sector?The Scottish government has supported social enterprise over the last decade, with political leadership from the current deputy first minister and cabinet secretary for finance and the economy, John Swinney. It has worked with the sector to develop an ecosystem for social enterprise, investing in business support, social investment, entrepreneurship development, leadership and education, opening markets and internationalisation. There are a range of reasons for this support. The census points to a sector that has shown resilience in the face of economic recession and with employment now returning to pre-recession levels, jobs created in social enterprises are more likely to have balance in terms of equality, gender and pay.  Related: Are Anglo-American social enterprise models stunting the social economy\u2019s growth? Less cohesive economies don\u2019t do as well because parts of society aren\u2019t benefiting. Therefore one of the key roles of social enterprise is to provide pathways to employment for a wide range of people, especially those who need support. The economy is expected to grow in the next decade but if the gap between rich and poor widens in this period, the national economic strategy will have failed. Social enterprise bridges economic and social pillars and has a unique opportunity to assist the national economy to create opportunities where conventional businesses will not. After a decade of sector and government collaboration, work is now underway to co-produce a social enterprise strategy to reflect the potential and contribution of the sector through to 2025.What do you hope the census will achieve? Having this wealth of evidence at our disposal, the next stage is to continue to build a collective response, within government and across those organisations that represent and support the sector. It enables us to set priorities and make informed choices about where we must invest to grow the sector. It also enables us to tell a convincing story about the sector and its potential, which is essential if we are to broaden the sources of support and finance available.Download Social Enterprise in Scotland: Census 2015 here.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Social enterprise takes centre stage in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-01T14:18:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n3.18pm BST\n15:18\n\nThat\u2019s all from me for today.I\u2019ll be back on Sunday, blogging from the Conservative conference and starting with David Cameron\u2019s interview on the Andrew Marr Show.Thanks for the comments.\n\n3.00pm BST\n15:00\n\nThe Eurosceptic split between Leave.EU (the Ukip-associated out campaign) and the For Britain group (which is more Conservative/business orientated) - see 11.38am - is now getting more ugly.Earlier Nigel Farage \u201cwelcomed\u201d the fact that Lord Lawson was taking over as president of Conservatives for Britain, but said Lawson and his group were too Westminster-focused.Now Leave.EU, which Farage supports, has criticised Lawson strongly. As Sebastian Payne reports at Coffee House, Leave.EU has issued a statement denouncing Lawson as a \u201chas been\u201d who should \u201cshut up\u201d. Here it is in full.The announcement that Lord Lawson is \u2018leading\u2019 the campaign to leave the EU is wrong. He\u2019s leading \u2018a\u2019 campaign that is run by the \u2018Westminster bubble\u2019 from SW1. When are these politicians going to learn that this campaign cannot we won from SW1. It has to appeal to the people, not the small clique of Eurosceptic Tories.It would be better if the Eurosceptic Tories just \u2018shut-up\u2019 as they are going to alienate the vast majority of people who will look at this campaign as a Tory stich-up.The Leave.EU campaign is about the people of Great Britain which includes Labour, Lib Dem UKIP Tories and anyone else who believes we should vote to leave the EU at the next referendum. If the Tories keep using has beens like Lord Lawson and the other Eurosceptic rabble then that will turn off supporters. So get back in your box Nigel and let the people support a peoples campaign not an SW1 bubble brigade.\u2019All of which proves that Farage was absolutely right last week when he told the Ukip conference that the problem with Eurosceptic groups is that that were hopelessly divided. As a reminder, this is what he said:One of the problems with the Eurosceptic movement in this country is it has been, for all the 25 years that I have been involved with it, it has very often been fractured, it has very often been divided, it has very often been a valid, pertinent and correct criticism to say that the Eurosceptic groups are all run by egomaniacs - with some exceptions, one hopes - that they can never work with each other, that they all hate each other, that they are more concerned with who is top dog on our side of the argument than fighting the enemy.\n\n2.31pm BST\n14:31\n\nSeverin CarrellJeremy Corbyn has told the Guardian that he would offer Scottish Labour \u201chard work and dour activities\u201d in its fight to close a widening gap with the Scottish National party.In Edinburgh on his first visit since winning the Labour leadership contest, he denied he brought unique properties to the job of rescuing the battered party from a record low in Scottish opinion polls. He said: \u201cOh, there\u2019s no magic solutions. There\u2019s hard work and dour activities and that\u2019s what I\u2019m going to be doing.\u201dCorbyn appeared to be wearying of the relentless media attention. Surrounded by a hoard of photographers and camera crews as he walked from the Scottish parliament to a private meeting with many of Scottish Labour\u2019s 37 MSPs in Edinburgh, Corbyn came close to sarcasm.Asked by the Guardian what he planned to say at his first ever meeting with the Scottish parliamentary group - in the appositely named Serenity cafe, he replied: \u201cWe\u2019re going to have a very interesting and very thoughtful and very intelligent and very well informed discussion and then we\u2019ll let you know.\u201dPressed for a few specific topics, he answered: \u201cLots of things; I imagine we\u2019ll be talking about poverty; we will be talking about austerity; we will be talking about the enormous growth of Labour party membership all over Britain, including Scotland.\u201dAs he posed for the photographers who asked him to fake a wave over their heads rather than towards a cluster of school children outside the Dynamic Earth geological sciences centre, he responded: \u201cOh, waving to the children ... the children are over there guys.\u201dSeveral bystanders were welcoming. He encountered one couple en route to the MSPs meeting, who said \u201cGlad you could visit Jeremy\u201d and \u201cWell done!\u201d. And outside a nearby cafe, a man cradling his baby daughter in the sunshine shouted out to him: \u201cThanks for bringing humanity back to politics. Well done sir.\u201dAfter a brief exchange of pleasantries with Corbyn, the dad told reporters: \u201cI think he\u2019s a true gent and he\u2019s what politics needs.\u201dTV crews sneak footage of @jeremycorbyn addressing @scottishlabour MSPs at the appositely named #Serenity cafe pic.twitter.com/lUAUcUma98\n\n2.05pm BST\n14:05\n\nIn this week\u2019s Spectator James Forsyth has a good article explaining how Boris Johnson\u2019s hopes of becoming the next Conservative leader have faded since the general election. According to Forsyth, Johnson was planning to pounce if the Tories did not do well.Five months ago, allies of Boris Johnson were ready to launch his bid to become leader of the Conservative party. The election was imminent and even David Cameron was fretting that the Tories were going to lose. A sympathetic pollster had prepared the numbers that made the post-defeat case for Boris: he extended the Tories\u2019 reach, and a party that had failed to gain a majority for 23 years desperately needed a greater reach. There was a policy agenda ready to magnify this appeal, too: compassionate conservatism, based around adopting the Living Wage. Boris had kept a plausible distance from these preparations. But one of those charged by No. 10 with sniffing out plots against the prime minister says of the Boris operation, \u2018Everything was geared to make it happen. Anything short of just shy of a majority, and it would have been in play.\u2019But the result turned out differently, and now George Osborne is seen as the favourite to succeed David Cameron. Not all is lost for Johnson, though. Today Ipsos MORI has released a poll showing that, amongst the public at large, Johnson is more popular than the chancellor. People say having Johnson as leader would be more likely to make them want to vote Conservative. But Osborne is more popular with Conservative supporters (who presumably include members, who will have the final say when they vote for the next leader).One in four (27%) say the London Mayor would be the candidate to make them most likely to vote Conservative at the next election. Falling behind Boris Johnson is Theresa May with 17%, George Osborne with 15%, Sajid Javid with 4% and Michael Gove with 3% (although 42% of Labour supporters, 28% of Liberal Democrats and 16% of UKIP supporters said \u2018none of them\u2019 would likely make them vote Conservative). Conservative supporters are though more likely to support George Osborne over Boris Johnson with one in three (32%) opting for the Chancellor versus three in ten (29%) choosing the London Mayor. Eighteen percent of Conservatives back Theresa May, 4% Michael Gove and 3% Sajid Javid.\n\n1.45pm BST\n13:45\n\nJeremy Corbyn told journalists that Labour was \u201cdoing great\u201d as he arrived at the Scottish parliament. According to the Press Association, he said:We\u2019re doing great, party membership is going up after my first conference as leader and things are going really well.He also said that he was looking forward to a \u201cgood chat\u201d with Kezia Dugdale and that they would be discussing how they campaign ahead of the Scottish elections next year.\n\n1.08pm BST\n13:08\n\nJeremy Corbyn has arrived at Holyrood for his meeting with Labour MSPs..@jeremycorbyn gets a #Holyrood welcome: arrives to wall of cameras as he bids to help save @scottishlabour pic.twitter.com/MdfT0d8D4K.@jeremycorbyn has arrived in Scotland to meet with @kdugdalemsp and members of the labour movement. pic.twitter.com/aSfodRlrcM\n\n12.27pm BST\n12:27\n\nBuzzFeed\u2019s Jamie Ross is covering Jeremy Corbyn in Scotland.Notable there aren't any angry men with saltires here to welcome Corbyn. Miliband was trapped in a shopping centre last time he visited.\n\n12.17pm BST\n12:17\n\nSky News\u2019s Faisal Islam has been tweeting about Jeremy Corbyn and Scotland.In Edi @jeremycorbyn tries to win back Scotland for Labour. Yday he told me: issues here are \"poverty, inequality, loss of college places...Corbyn re Scotland \"..issues are need for investment, welfare bill and whether or not Scottish govt uses tax revenue raising powers or not..In ydays interview, Corbyn said \"scottish people have a right to make their own decision... There may or may not be another referendum...\"Corbyn also pointed out in yesterday's interview that the SNP \"have a bit of a problem\" with their finance spokesperson\n\n11.38am BST\n11:38\n\nAs I said earlier, Lord Lawson\u2019s appointment as president of Conservatives for Britain is the latest development in a struggle between Leave.EU and the For Britain coalition for the right to be the lead out campaign in the EU referendum. (See 10.30am.) Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has now hit back, suggesting the For Britain camp are too Westminster-focused. In a statement he said:Whilst I welcome Lord Lawson in his new role as head of Conservatives for Britain which will apparently be be campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, there are a few issues we must make clear.Whilst winning support from Westminster figures is important, this referendum cannot be won in Westminster but out across the country. That is why I have been so impressed by the Leave.EU campaign which is signing up thousands of supporters every week and why I and other Ukip MEPs have been going across the country holding public meetings on the Say No to EU national tour, speaking to thousands of voters.Lord Lawson calls for all to support his campaign [see 10.30am] but the fact that it is called Conservatives for Britain and that he is so intimately associated with the Thatcher years is bound to limit appeal to Conservative voters. The Leave campaign must reach across the spectrum to everyone.As I have always said, Ukip will work with anyone who wants to help get the UK out of the EU. My party cannot win this referendum on our own. But it cannot be won without us either.Updated\nat 2.43pm BST\n\n\n11.14am BST\n11:14\n\nIn the New Statesman Suzanne Hall has written up the findings of two focus groups conducted in Croydon Central to find out how voters reacted to Jeremy Corbyn\u2019s conference speech.The findings were mixed. Participants warmed to Corbyn personally.A common refrain from participants was how Corbyn appeared to be \u201cgenuine\u201d and someone that they could relate to. This was evident from both his image \u2013 participants noted his appearance was certainly less slick than his predecessors \u2013 but also his background. This experience lent him a credibility that they felt had been lacking from Westminster for some time.But they were not so positive about some of what he had to say.At least Miliband intended to talk about the deficit at the 2014 conference. This time, participants sensed the omission was because Corbyn only wanted to talk the things that mattered to him \u2013 not them. For example, his talk of human rights and a social Europe seemed unrelated to the issues they felt were facing the country. \u201cThe first thing he wants to talk about is a 17 year old boy in Saudi Arabia \u2013 I don\u2019t know who he is! I have never heard of him. Why is this important to me?\u201d\u201cA social Europe? What is that? Is that the EU? A lot of this went over my head. If they want people to vote, then they need to make it clear what they are talking about.\u201d Rather, they wanted to hear about things like the economy and immigration \u2013 and not in the context of the refugee crisis. The full article is here.\n\n10.30am BST\n10:30\n\nLord Lawson, the former chancellor who is becoming president of Conservatives for Britain, told the Today programme this morning that he would not share a platform with Leave.EU, the out campaign set up by the Ukip donor Arron Banks and unveiled at the Ukip conference last week. Asked if he would share a platform with them, Lawson replied:No, we welcome others to come and support us. We are not going to support anybody else but we are open to all sorts of others from all parties and none to come and rally to the Conservatives for Britain group.Conservatives for Britain are linked to Business for Britain and Labour for Britain, and they are shortly expected to unite and form a cross-party For Britain campaign. For Britain and Leave.eu are both competing to be designated as the lead out campaign by the Electoral Commission. The lead campaign gets public funding and free mailing, as well as taking charge of the campaign broadcasts.Lawson also said that he was not anti-European.The point is I am not anti-European \u2013 I am speaking to you from my home in France \u2013 the problem is not Europe, the problem is the European Union and the European Union is way past its sell-by date.And he explained why he believed David Cameron could not achieve significant EU reform.The European Union first of all cannot be changed either in its own structure or in the relationship between the union as such and the member states. Treaty change can only be agreed unanimously \u2013 you can\u2019t have treaty change unless there is unanimous agreement. And all the evidence is \u2013 and I have been around a long time, I don\u2019t make this judgement lightly \u2013 but all the evidence is that that unanimity is not going to be forthcoming. Indeed we will only have a few friends who will support the sort of changes we wish to see.Updated\nat 12.00pm BST\n\n\n9.49am BST\n09:49\n\nAs my colleague Matthew Weaver reports, the SNP has responded to the news that Jeremy Corbyn is visiting Scotland by challenging him \u2018to clarify his position on Trident after his admission that he would never use nuclear weapons was openly criticised by members of his shadow cabinet\u201d.The SNP intervention has come in the form of a statement from Stewart Hosie, the SNP deputy leader. He claims Labour divisions on Trident and austerity \u201cwill allow the Tories to steam roller through their cuts to social security and the spending of \u00a3100bn of nuclear weapons\u201d. That\u2019s a questionable claim, on two counts. First, although Labour is clearly split over Trident, the divisions over austerity are much more nuanced and the party in parliament is very likely to unite behind Jeremy Corbyn in opposing the welfare bill. Second, even if every Labour MP lined up with the SNP to vote against Trident, Trident renewal would almost certainly still get passed because of the Conservative majority.\n\n9.25am BST\n09:25\n\nAfter a hectic five days in Brighton Jeremy Corbyn might feel he deserves a break, but instead the Labour head is heading for Scotland where he is due to hold meetings with MSPs, union leaders, council leaders and activists. Speaking in advance, he said he wanted to make it clear that Kezia Dugdale, the Scottish Labour leader, was in charge of Scottish Labour. A previous leader in Scotland, Johann Lamont, complained about London treating the Scottish party like a \u201cbranch office\u201d. Corbyn said:Under my leadership there will be no question about who is in charge of the Scottish Labour party. Kezia Dugdale is leader of our party in Scotland and I will be working alongside her to win back support for Labour.Corbyn also said in advance of his visit that the SNP was backward-looking.The stakes are high for Scotland. People can\u2019t afford a Tory Government whose policies are making people work harder for less or an SNP Government that is intent on having the arguments of the past rather than looking to the future. It\u2019s time for a Labour Government that would put our young people first and make sure that we are narrowing the gap between the richest and the rest.Other than Corbyn\u2019s visit to Scotland today, it looks relatively quiet, although I will post any reaction to the news that Lord Lawson, the former chancellor, will lead the Conservative campaign to leave the EU.If you want to follow me or get in touch on Twitter, I\u2019m on @AndrewSparrow.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Jeremy Corbyn", "Kezia Dugdale"], "title": "Jeremy Corbyn visits Scotland - Politics live"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T14:50:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Social enterprise has a long and proud history in Scotland but the results of the country\u2019s first comprehensive sector census (pdf) show that it is thriving today as never before. We asked Gerry Higgins, the CEO of Glasgow-based CEIS and a founder of the Social Enterprise World Forum, to draw on his 30 years of experience in explaining some of the most striking findings. What has the census told you about social enterprise in your country?  Related: What is the critical mass needed for a social enterprise to make a difference? It has provided a wealth of evidence about the scale, characteristics, contribution and aspirations of the social enterprise community. It has also reaffirmed the growing significance of social enterprise to our communities.Social enterprises have been shown to be active in almost every part of the economy, from the creative industries to sustainable tourism. Despite the historical roots of social enterprise, many of those active today have only emerged over the last decade and the pace of new enterprise formation appears to be accelerating each year.As Jonathan Coburn of Social Value Lab has noted, \u201cthe overall scale of the social enterprise sector has come as a surprise to many; in terms of the number of social enterprises operating, their employment and economic contribution. The figures suggest a much larger sector than previously thought and one that appears to be growing fast.\u201dA large part of the social enterprise community in Scotland has grown under the radar over many years. It comprises small and micro enterprises strongly rooted in a single place \u2013 villages, towns or neighbourhoods \u2013 that manage important amenities and services such as community buildings, childcare and so on. \"Social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing.\"22% of Scottish social enterprises are based in the highlands and islands, which are home to only 9% of the population. What accounts for this? In these areas social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing. It is critical to the region. This also reflects 50 years of support from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), an agency that recognised the significance of social enterprise as a sustainable economic model long before others. HIE understands that in communities with challenges of remoteness and distance from markets, the social and community enterprise sector has intrinsic importance. In these communities, the connections between businesses and communities are so close and there is an innate sense of people \u201cdoing things for themselves\u201d which drives a vibrant social economy.The social enterprise business model is an active choice for many of the region\u2019s most innovative entrepreneurs and receives direct support, tailored products and services, account management and capital investment from HIE. The agency also provides support so that the leadership, innovation and the business dimensions of the sector can be strengthened.60% of social enterprises are led by women and more than 70% report that more than half their employees are female. Why are they so much more inclusive than traditional businesses? Related: Top tips from Thailand on starting a successful social enterprise Gender equality is a longstanding problem in the commercial sector. For instance, only 9% of executive directorships in FTSE100 companies are held by women (pdf). In Scotland and elsewhere however, social enterprise appears not to have a glass ceiling preventing female professionals to progress to leadership levels. Or as the Social Enterprise UK 2013 sector survey noted, \u201csocial enterprise is the natural home of the female entrepreneur.\u201dThe high participation rate of women in the sector may be partially due to the fact that social enterprises tend not to match commercial sector pay levels but often offer a greater range of secondary benefits. Flexible working is commonplace and many have family friendly working conditions which is a critical factor for many female employees. Whether gender equality leads to democratic workplaces or vice versa, the traditions and values of social enterprise result in more participative and less hierarchical workplaces than in the commercial sector. These workplaces are based on equality, openness and fairness and this leads to better productivity and lower turnover as employees are engaged and motivated.How and why has the Scottish government supported the sector?The Scottish government has supported social enterprise over the last decade, with political leadership from the current deputy first minister and cabinet secretary for finance and the economy, John Swinney. It has worked with the sector to develop an ecosystem for social enterprise, investing in business support, social investment, entrepreneurship development, leadership and education, opening markets and internationalisation. There are a range of reasons for this support. The census points to a sector that has shown resilience in the face of economic recession and with employment now returning to pre-recession levels, jobs created in social enterprises are more likely to have balance in terms of equality, gender and pay.  Related: Are Anglo-American social enterprise models stunting the social economy\u2019s growth? Less cohesive economies don\u2019t do as well because parts of society aren\u2019t benefiting. Therefore one of the key roles of social enterprise is to provide pathways to employment for a wide range of people, especially those who need support. The economy is expected to grow in the next decade but if the gap between rich and poor widens in this period, the national economic strategy will have failed. Social enterprise bridges economic and social pillars and has a unique opportunity to assist the national economy to create opportunities where conventional businesses will not. After a decade of sector and government collaboration, work is now underway to co-produce a social enterprise strategy to reflect the potential and contribution of the sector through to 2025.What do you hope the census will achieve? Having this wealth of evidence at our disposal, the next stage is to continue to build a collective response, within government and across those organisations that represent and support the sector. It enables us to set priorities and make informed choices about where we must invest to grow the sector. It also enables us to tell a convincing story about the sector and its potential, which is essential if we are to broaden the sources of support and finance available.Download Social Enterprise in Scotland: Census 2015 here.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Social enterprise takes centre stage in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-01T14:18:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n3.18pm BST\n15:18\n\nThat\u2019s all from me for today.I\u2019ll be back on Sunday, blogging from the Conservative conference and starting with David Cameron\u2019s interview on the Andrew Marr Show.Thanks for the comments.\n\n3.00pm BST\n15:00\n\nThe Eurosceptic split between Leave.EU (the Ukip-associated out campaign) and the For Britain group (which is more Conservative/business orientated) - see 11.38am - is now getting more ugly.Earlier Nigel Farage \u201cwelcomed\u201d the fact that Lord Lawson was taking over as president of Conservatives for Britain, but said Lawson and his group were too Westminster-focused.Now Leave.EU, which Farage supports, has criticised Lawson strongly. As Sebastian Payne reports at Coffee House, Leave.EU has issued a statement denouncing Lawson as a \u201chas been\u201d who should \u201cshut up\u201d. Here it is in full.The announcement that Lord Lawson is \u2018leading\u2019 the campaign to leave the EU is wrong. He\u2019s leading \u2018a\u2019 campaign that is run by the \u2018Westminster bubble\u2019 from SW1. When are these politicians going to learn that this campaign cannot we won from SW1. It has to appeal to the people, not the small clique of Eurosceptic Tories.It would be better if the Eurosceptic Tories just \u2018shut-up\u2019 as they are going to alienate the vast majority of people who will look at this campaign as a Tory stich-up.The Leave.EU campaign is about the people of Great Britain which includes Labour, Lib Dem UKIP Tories and anyone else who believes we should vote to leave the EU at the next referendum. If the Tories keep using has beens like Lord Lawson and the other Eurosceptic rabble then that will turn off supporters. So get back in your box Nigel and let the people support a peoples campaign not an SW1 bubble brigade.\u2019All of which proves that Farage was absolutely right last week when he told the Ukip conference that the problem with Eurosceptic groups is that that were hopelessly divided. As a reminder, this is what he said:One of the problems with the Eurosceptic movement in this country is it has been, for all the 25 years that I have been involved with it, it has very often been fractured, it has very often been divided, it has very often been a valid, pertinent and correct criticism to say that the Eurosceptic groups are all run by egomaniacs - with some exceptions, one hopes - that they can never work with each other, that they all hate each other, that they are more concerned with who is top dog on our side of the argument than fighting the enemy.\n\n2.31pm BST\n14:31\n\nSeverin CarrellJeremy Corbyn has told the Guardian that he would offer Scottish Labour \u201chard work and dour activities\u201d in its fight to close a widening gap with the Scottish National party.In Edinburgh on his first visit since winning the Labour leadership contest, he denied he brought unique properties to the job of rescuing the battered party from a record low in Scottish opinion polls. He said: \u201cOh, there\u2019s no magic solutions. There\u2019s hard work and dour activities and that\u2019s what I\u2019m going to be doing.\u201dCorbyn appeared to be wearying of the relentless media attention. Surrounded by a hoard of photographers and camera crews as he walked from the Scottish parliament to a private meeting with many of Scottish Labour\u2019s 37 MSPs in Edinburgh, Corbyn came close to sarcasm.Asked by the Guardian what he planned to say at his first ever meeting with the Scottish parliamentary group - in the appositely named Serenity cafe, he replied: \u201cWe\u2019re going to have a very interesting and very thoughtful and very intelligent and very well informed discussion and then we\u2019ll let you know.\u201dPressed for a few specific topics, he answered: \u201cLots of things; I imagine we\u2019ll be talking about poverty; we will be talking about austerity; we will be talking about the enormous growth of Labour party membership all over Britain, including Scotland.\u201dAs he posed for the photographers who asked him to fake a wave over their heads rather than towards a cluster of school children outside the Dynamic Earth geological sciences centre, he responded: \u201cOh, waving to the children ... the children are over there guys.\u201dSeveral bystanders were welcoming. He encountered one couple en route to the MSPs meeting, who said \u201cGlad you could visit Jeremy\u201d and \u201cWell done!\u201d. And outside a nearby cafe, a man cradling his baby daughter in the sunshine shouted out to him: \u201cThanks for bringing humanity back to politics. Well done sir.\u201dAfter a brief exchange of pleasantries with Corbyn, the dad told reporters: \u201cI think he\u2019s a true gent and he\u2019s what politics needs.\u201dTV crews sneak footage of @jeremycorbyn addressing @scottishlabour MSPs at the appositely named #Serenity cafe pic.twitter.com/lUAUcUma98\n\n2.05pm BST\n14:05\n\nIn this week\u2019s Spectator James Forsyth has a good article explaining how Boris Johnson\u2019s hopes of becoming the next Conservative leader have faded since the general election. According to Forsyth, Johnson was planning to pounce if the Tories did not do well.Five months ago, allies of Boris Johnson were ready to launch his bid to become leader of the Conservative party. The election was imminent and even David Cameron was fretting that the Tories were going to lose. A sympathetic pollster had prepared the numbers that made the post-defeat case for Boris: he extended the Tories\u2019 reach, and a party that had failed to gain a majority for 23 years desperately needed a greater reach. There was a policy agenda ready to magnify this appeal, too: compassionate conservatism, based around adopting the Living Wage. Boris had kept a plausible distance from these preparations. But one of those charged by No. 10 with sniffing out plots against the prime minister says of the Boris operation, \u2018Everything was geared to make it happen. Anything short of just shy of a majority, and it would have been in play.\u2019But the result turned out differently, and now George Osborne is seen as the favourite to succeed David Cameron. Not all is lost for Johnson, though. Today Ipsos MORI has released a poll showing that, amongst the public at large, Johnson is more popular than the chancellor. People say having Johnson as leader would be more likely to make them want to vote Conservative. But Osborne is more popular with Conservative supporters (who presumably include members, who will have the final say when they vote for the next leader).One in four (27%) say the London Mayor would be the candidate to make them most likely to vote Conservative at the next election. Falling behind Boris Johnson is Theresa May with 17%, George Osborne with 15%, Sajid Javid with 4% and Michael Gove with 3% (although 42% of Labour supporters, 28% of Liberal Democrats and 16% of UKIP supporters said \u2018none of them\u2019 would likely make them vote Conservative). Conservative supporters are though more likely to support George Osborne over Boris Johnson with one in three (32%) opting for the Chancellor versus three in ten (29%) choosing the London Mayor. Eighteen percent of Conservatives back Theresa May, 4% Michael Gove and 3% Sajid Javid.\n\n1.45pm BST\n13:45\n\nJeremy Corbyn told journalists that Labour was \u201cdoing great\u201d as he arrived at the Scottish parliament. According to the Press Association, he said:We\u2019re doing great, party membership is going up after my first conference as leader and things are going really well.He also said that he was looking forward to a \u201cgood chat\u201d with Kezia Dugdale and that they would be discussing how they campaign ahead of the Scottish elections next year.\n\n1.08pm BST\n13:08\n\nJeremy Corbyn has arrived at Holyrood for his meeting with Labour MSPs..@jeremycorbyn gets a #Holyrood welcome: arrives to wall of cameras as he bids to help save @scottishlabour pic.twitter.com/MdfT0d8D4K.@jeremycorbyn has arrived in Scotland to meet with @kdugdalemsp and members of the labour movement. pic.twitter.com/aSfodRlrcM\n\n12.27pm BST\n12:27\n\nBuzzFeed\u2019s Jamie Ross is covering Jeremy Corbyn in Scotland.Notable there aren't any angry men with saltires here to welcome Corbyn. Miliband was trapped in a shopping centre last time he visited.\n\n12.17pm BST\n12:17\n\nSky News\u2019s Faisal Islam has been tweeting about Jeremy Corbyn and Scotland.In Edi @jeremycorbyn tries to win back Scotland for Labour. Yday he told me: issues here are \"poverty, inequality, loss of college places...Corbyn re Scotland \"..issues are need for investment, welfare bill and whether or not Scottish govt uses tax revenue raising powers or not..In ydays interview, Corbyn said \"scottish people have a right to make their own decision... There may or may not be another referendum...\"Corbyn also pointed out in yesterday's interview that the SNP \"have a bit of a problem\" with their finance spokesperson\n\n11.38am BST\n11:38\n\nAs I said earlier, Lord Lawson\u2019s appointment as president of Conservatives for Britain is the latest development in a struggle between Leave.EU and the For Britain coalition for the right to be the lead out campaign in the EU referendum. (See 10.30am.) Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has now hit back, suggesting the For Britain camp are too Westminster-focused. In a statement he said:Whilst I welcome Lord Lawson in his new role as head of Conservatives for Britain which will apparently be be campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, there are a few issues we must make clear.Whilst winning support from Westminster figures is important, this referendum cannot be won in Westminster but out across the country. That is why I have been so impressed by the Leave.EU campaign which is signing up thousands of supporters every week and why I and other Ukip MEPs have been going across the country holding public meetings on the Say No to EU national tour, speaking to thousands of voters.Lord Lawson calls for all to support his campaign [see 10.30am] but the fact that it is called Conservatives for Britain and that he is so intimately associated with the Thatcher years is bound to limit appeal to Conservative voters. The Leave campaign must reach across the spectrum to everyone.As I have always said, Ukip will work with anyone who wants to help get the UK out of the EU. My party cannot win this referendum on our own. But it cannot be won without us either.Updated\nat 2.43pm BST\n\n\n11.14am BST\n11:14\n\nIn the New Statesman Suzanne Hall has written up the findings of two focus groups conducted in Croydon Central to find out how voters reacted to Jeremy Corbyn\u2019s conference speech.The findings were mixed. Participants warmed to Corbyn personally.A common refrain from participants was how Corbyn appeared to be \u201cgenuine\u201d and someone that they could relate to. This was evident from both his image \u2013 participants noted his appearance was certainly less slick than his predecessors \u2013 but also his background. This experience lent him a credibility that they felt had been lacking from Westminster for some time.But they were not so positive about some of what he had to say.At least Miliband intended to talk about the deficit at the 2014 conference. This time, participants sensed the omission was because Corbyn only wanted to talk the things that mattered to him \u2013 not them. For example, his talk of human rights and a social Europe seemed unrelated to the issues they felt were facing the country. \u201cThe first thing he wants to talk about is a 17 year old boy in Saudi Arabia \u2013 I don\u2019t know who he is! I have never heard of him. Why is this important to me?\u201d\u201cA social Europe? What is that? Is that the EU? A lot of this went over my head. If they want people to vote, then they need to make it clear what they are talking about.\u201d Rather, they wanted to hear about things like the economy and immigration \u2013 and not in the context of the refugee crisis. The full article is here.\n\n10.30am BST\n10:30\n\nLord Lawson, the former chancellor who is becoming president of Conservatives for Britain, told the Today programme this morning that he would not share a platform with Leave.EU, the out campaign set up by the Ukip donor Arron Banks and unveiled at the Ukip conference last week. Asked if he would share a platform with them, Lawson replied:No, we welcome others to come and support us. We are not going to support anybody else but we are open to all sorts of others from all parties and none to come and rally to the Conservatives for Britain group.Conservatives for Britain are linked to Business for Britain and Labour for Britain, and they are shortly expected to unite and form a cross-party For Britain campaign. For Britain and Leave.eu are both competing to be designated as the lead out campaign by the Electoral Commission. The lead campaign gets public funding and free mailing, as well as taking charge of the campaign broadcasts.Lawson also said that he was not anti-European.The point is I am not anti-European \u2013 I am speaking to you from my home in France \u2013 the problem is not Europe, the problem is the European Union and the European Union is way past its sell-by date.And he explained why he believed David Cameron could not achieve significant EU reform.The European Union first of all cannot be changed either in its own structure or in the relationship between the union as such and the member states. Treaty change can only be agreed unanimously \u2013 you can\u2019t have treaty change unless there is unanimous agreement. And all the evidence is \u2013 and I have been around a long time, I don\u2019t make this judgement lightly \u2013 but all the evidence is that that unanimity is not going to be forthcoming. Indeed we will only have a few friends who will support the sort of changes we wish to see.Updated\nat 12.00pm BST\n\n\n9.49am BST\n09:49\n\nAs my colleague Matthew Weaver reports, the SNP has responded to the news that Jeremy Corbyn is visiting Scotland by challenging him \u2018to clarify his position on Trident after his admission that he would never use nuclear weapons was openly criticised by members of his shadow cabinet\u201d.The SNP intervention has come in the form of a statement from Stewart Hosie, the SNP deputy leader. He claims Labour divisions on Trident and austerity \u201cwill allow the Tories to steam roller through their cuts to social security and the spending of \u00a3100bn of nuclear weapons\u201d. That\u2019s a questionable claim, on two counts. First, although Labour is clearly split over Trident, the divisions over austerity are much more nuanced and the party in parliament is very likely to unite behind Jeremy Corbyn in opposing the welfare bill. Second, even if every Labour MP lined up with the SNP to vote against Trident, Trident renewal would almost certainly still get passed because of the Conservative majority.\n\n9.25am BST\n09:25\n\nAfter a hectic five days in Brighton Jeremy Corbyn might feel he deserves a break, but instead the Labour head is heading for Scotland where he is due to hold meetings with MSPs, union leaders, council leaders and activists. Speaking in advance, he said he wanted to make it clear that Kezia Dugdale, the Scottish Labour leader, was in charge of Scottish Labour. A previous leader in Scotland, Johann Lamont, complained about London treating the Scottish party like a \u201cbranch office\u201d. Corbyn said:Under my leadership there will be no question about who is in charge of the Scottish Labour party. Kezia Dugdale is leader of our party in Scotland and I will be working alongside her to win back support for Labour.Corbyn also said in advance of his visit that the SNP was backward-looking.The stakes are high for Scotland. People can\u2019t afford a Tory Government whose policies are making people work harder for less or an SNP Government that is intent on having the arguments of the past rather than looking to the future. It\u2019s time for a Labour Government that would put our young people first and make sure that we are narrowing the gap between the richest and the rest.Other than Corbyn\u2019s visit to Scotland today, it looks relatively quiet, although I will post any reaction to the news that Lord Lawson, the former chancellor, will lead the Conservative campaign to leave the EU.If you want to follow me or get in touch on Twitter, I\u2019m on @AndrewSparrow.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Jeremy Corbyn", "Kezia Dugdale"], "title": "Jeremy Corbyn visits Scotland - Politics live"},{"date": "2015-12-21T12:13:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amer Masri recalls the overwhelming relief of one Syrian refugee who arrived in Scotland a few weeks ago.\u201cHe was so grateful. He kept repeating \u2018Thank you Scotland! Thank you Nicola Sturgeon!\u2019 after every phrase I translated for him.\u201dMasri is himself a refugee, who fled the Assad regime in 2011 and now works as a research scientist in Edinburgh, where he lives with his wife and two young children.Over the past month, Masri and a group of other local Syrians have been visiting their newly arrived country-folk, helping where they can with the inevitable stresses and strangeness of negotiating a foreign land in the middle of winter. \u201cIt\u2019s to show them we are here, that this country gave us dignity and freedom, and that encourages them,\u201d explains Masri. Their initial anxieties have not been so banal as the weather, he adds. \u201cWe try to emphasise that the police in Scotland are here to help them, that they are not in danger from them. We\u2019ve also tried to explain that this is an equal country, whether between those with education or no education, and importantly that women have the same rights as men.\u201dOn 17 November, the first charter flight carrying families mainly from camps bordering Syria touched down at Glasgow airport during a relentless downpour. Since then, more than 300 men, women and children have been settled across the country by half of Scotland\u2019s 32 local authorities. In a reflection of the country\u2019s readiness in comparison to other parts of the UK, Scotland has welcomed one in three of the thousand refugees David Cameron agreed to take before the end of the year, although the Scottish government\u2019s proportionate commitment was to take 10% of the total number over five years.With the first plane-load landing days after the Paris attacks in November, concerns were raised that some people would conflate the refugees\u2019 arrival with the terrorist threat. There was a suspected arson attack on a mosque to the north of Glasgow and Police Scotland confirmed an immediate spike in hate crimes later that week. The day before the first arrivals, Humza Yousaf, the chair of the refugee taskforce which has coordinated the resettlement programme, and the Scottish government\u2019s only Muslim minister, confirmed that he had informed the police of the Islamophobic abuse he received on social media.But a month later, Yousaf praised the public\u2019s response to the refugee crisis, saying: \u201cI am deeply proud of the Scottish people who have extended the warmest possible hand of friendship to our newest neighbours.\u201dSpeaking before the final refugee taskforce meeting of the year, he added: \u201cI\u2019ve heard heartwarming tales \u2013 people walking up to refugees in the street and giving them hugs of welcome, offers of friendship, support and practical help, from arranging special community film screenings for refugees to giving them welcome gifts of food hampers, warm clothes and hot water bottles.\u201dMeanwhile, local communities have responded in their own, sometimes ambivalent, ways. As the Guardian reported, a Scottish Defence League protest in Ayrshire was countered by refugee rights activists, while in Renfrewshire a number of internet trolls posting bile about the resettlement plans were exposed by the Paisley Daily Express with a front page headline that read: \u201cShame on you.\u201d Local welcome campaigns have sprung up across the country, like Glasgow\u2019s Refuweegee project, which takes its name from the slang term for a Glaswegian \u2013 Weegee. It is the brainchild of Selina Hales, a city native who was prompted by news coverage of Syrians travelling across Europe seeking shelter. Its volunteers are putting together welcome packs, which include a handwritten letter from a local as well as Glasgow-appropriate items including obligatory umbrellas. \u201cI wanted to capture that real Glasgow welcome,\u201d says Hales. \u201cPeople don\u2019t just want to welcome people but to embrace them and make them feel like a local.\u201dScottish authorities are aware that those listed by the UNHCR for immediate resettlement include some of the most vulnerable and traumatised individuals, and have protected their privacy as they begin their new lives in Scotland. As Masri confirms: \u201cA lot of them have been through tragic and traumatic experiences, some were detained and tortured, and there is a big problem with post-traumatic stress. On top of that is the stress that moving to another continent and culture imposes, so their psychological situation is very sensitive.\u201dBut the Syrians he is in contact with have more workaday concerns, too. \u201cThere is the weather and the culture shock at the beginning, the short days in winter and the temperature. The pattern of daily life is different too, when the shops close and when life on the streets stops. In Syria we have cafes that are open late at night, but here there are only pubs and bars.\u201d The language barrier is an immediate problem, says Masri, particularly because many of the new arrivals come from rural parts of Syria where access to education is scant. \u201cHow can they learn a different language when they don\u2019t know how to read and write in Arabic? So we are trying to teach them in parallel Arabic and English.\u201dOn the Isle of Bute, where 12 Syrian families arrived in the seaside town of Rothesay in early December, the council has hired two dedicated translators to work with the new arrivals. Related: 'People want to help': Scottish town prepares to host Syrian refugees Locals hope the setting will suit their new guests. As Clellan Sneddon, executive director of community services for Argyll and Bute council, explains: \u201cWe have got people who are from smaller towns or rural backgrounds and therefore we think the transition, the match, is a little better.\u201dVolunteers on Bute are quick to point out that their refugees don\u2019t actually know one another. A pop-up community centre, based in a church hall and staffed by locals, has proved essential, allowing women with small babies to support each other as well as providing a focus for visits from education and social workers.The centre has also allowed the refugees access to donated clothing in a more dignified environment: the items are displayed on rails so that the Syrians can choose themselves as though in a shop, with private changing areas for men and women. There is an ongoing difficulty that, while huge amounts of clothing have been collected, the one thing that people don\u2019t donate secondhand is underwear, especially thermals. There is no mosque on Bute so the possibility of a city imam travelling along the coast to conduct Friday prayers was discussed, while local supermarkets made inquiries about stocking halal meat. Concerns about lack of pulses in the Co-op were solved when Yotam Ottolenghi got in touch, offering to send chickpeas, spices and juices. A large donation of halal products was made soon after the refugees arrived and now the community centre hosts prayers every Friday from 11am to 1pm.Over Christmas, volunteers will continue to staff the centre. Most recently there was a call for multiple car seats to transport the younger family members to a showing of the local Christmas pantomime, Puss In Boots. The children found the concept of a dame hilarious.As Masri observes: \u201cIt\u2019s the children who adapt the quickest. They are like sponges.\u201d", "tags": ["Refugees", "World news", "Scotland", "UK news", "Immigration and asylum", "Migration"], "title": "Syrian refugees in Scotland: cold weather but warm welcome"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T14:50:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Social enterprise has a long and proud history in Scotland but the results of the country\u2019s first comprehensive sector census (pdf) show that it is thriving today as never before. We asked Gerry Higgins, the CEO of Glasgow-based CEIS and a founder of the Social Enterprise World Forum, to draw on his 30 years of experience in explaining some of the most striking findings. What has the census told you about social enterprise in your country?  Related: What is the critical mass needed for a social enterprise to make a difference? It has provided a wealth of evidence about the scale, characteristics, contribution and aspirations of the social enterprise community. It has also reaffirmed the growing significance of social enterprise to our communities.Social enterprises have been shown to be active in almost every part of the economy, from the creative industries to sustainable tourism. Despite the historical roots of social enterprise, many of those active today have only emerged over the last decade and the pace of new enterprise formation appears to be accelerating each year.As Jonathan Coburn of Social Value Lab has noted, \u201cthe overall scale of the social enterprise sector has come as a surprise to many; in terms of the number of social enterprises operating, their employment and economic contribution. The figures suggest a much larger sector than previously thought and one that appears to be growing fast.\u201dA large part of the social enterprise community in Scotland has grown under the radar over many years. It comprises small and micro enterprises strongly rooted in a single place \u2013 villages, towns or neighbourhoods \u2013 that manage important amenities and services such as community buildings, childcare and so on. \"Social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing.\"22% of Scottish social enterprises are based in the highlands and islands, which are home to only 9% of the population. What accounts for this? In these areas social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing. It is critical to the region. This also reflects 50 years of support from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), an agency that recognised the significance of social enterprise as a sustainable economic model long before others. HIE understands that in communities with challenges of remoteness and distance from markets, the social and community enterprise sector has intrinsic importance. In these communities, the connections between businesses and communities are so close and there is an innate sense of people \u201cdoing things for themselves\u201d which drives a vibrant social economy.The social enterprise business model is an active choice for many of the region\u2019s most innovative entrepreneurs and receives direct support, tailored products and services, account management and capital investment from HIE. The agency also provides support so that the leadership, innovation and the business dimensions of the sector can be strengthened.60% of social enterprises are led by women and more than 70% report that more than half their employees are female. Why are they so much more inclusive than traditional businesses? Related: Top tips from Thailand on starting a successful social enterprise Gender equality is a longstanding problem in the commercial sector. For instance, only 9% of executive directorships in FTSE100 companies are held by women (pdf). In Scotland and elsewhere however, social enterprise appears not to have a glass ceiling preventing female professionals to progress to leadership levels. Or as the Social Enterprise UK 2013 sector survey noted, \u201csocial enterprise is the natural home of the female entrepreneur.\u201dThe high participation rate of women in the sector may be partially due to the fact that social enterprises tend not to match commercial sector pay levels but often offer a greater range of secondary benefits. Flexible working is commonplace and many have family friendly working conditions which is a critical factor for many female employees. Whether gender equality leads to democratic workplaces or vice versa, the traditions and values of social enterprise result in more participative and less hierarchical workplaces than in the commercial sector. These workplaces are based on equality, openness and fairness and this leads to better productivity and lower turnover as employees are engaged and motivated.How and why has the Scottish government supported the sector?The Scottish government has supported social enterprise over the last decade, with political leadership from the current deputy first minister and cabinet secretary for finance and the economy, John Swinney. It has worked with the sector to develop an ecosystem for social enterprise, investing in business support, social investment, entrepreneurship development, leadership and education, opening markets and internationalisation. There are a range of reasons for this support. The census points to a sector that has shown resilience in the face of economic recession and with employment now returning to pre-recession levels, jobs created in social enterprises are more likely to have balance in terms of equality, gender and pay.  Related: Are Anglo-American social enterprise models stunting the social economy\u2019s growth? Less cohesive economies don\u2019t do as well because parts of society aren\u2019t benefiting. Therefore one of the key roles of social enterprise is to provide pathways to employment for a wide range of people, especially those who need support. The economy is expected to grow in the next decade but if the gap between rich and poor widens in this period, the national economic strategy will have failed. Social enterprise bridges economic and social pillars and has a unique opportunity to assist the national economy to create opportunities where conventional businesses will not. After a decade of sector and government collaboration, work is now underway to co-produce a social enterprise strategy to reflect the potential and contribution of the sector through to 2025.What do you hope the census will achieve? Having this wealth of evidence at our disposal, the next stage is to continue to build a collective response, within government and across those organisations that represent and support the sector. It enables us to set priorities and make informed choices about where we must invest to grow the sector. It also enables us to tell a convincing story about the sector and its potential, which is essential if we are to broaden the sources of support and finance available.Download Social Enterprise in Scotland: Census 2015 here.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Social enterprise takes centre stage in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-01T14:18:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n3.18pm BST\n15:18\n\nThat\u2019s all from me for today.I\u2019ll be back on Sunday, blogging from the Conservative conference and starting with David Cameron\u2019s interview on the Andrew Marr Show.Thanks for the comments.\n\n3.00pm BST\n15:00\n\nThe Eurosceptic split between Leave.EU (the Ukip-associated out campaign) and the For Britain group (which is more Conservative/business orientated) - see 11.38am - is now getting more ugly.Earlier Nigel Farage \u201cwelcomed\u201d the fact that Lord Lawson was taking over as president of Conservatives for Britain, but said Lawson and his group were too Westminster-focused.Now Leave.EU, which Farage supports, has criticised Lawson strongly. As Sebastian Payne reports at Coffee House, Leave.EU has issued a statement denouncing Lawson as a \u201chas been\u201d who should \u201cshut up\u201d. Here it is in full.The announcement that Lord Lawson is \u2018leading\u2019 the campaign to leave the EU is wrong. He\u2019s leading \u2018a\u2019 campaign that is run by the \u2018Westminster bubble\u2019 from SW1. When are these politicians going to learn that this campaign cannot we won from SW1. It has to appeal to the people, not the small clique of Eurosceptic Tories.It would be better if the Eurosceptic Tories just \u2018shut-up\u2019 as they are going to alienate the vast majority of people who will look at this campaign as a Tory stich-up.The Leave.EU campaign is about the people of Great Britain which includes Labour, Lib Dem UKIP Tories and anyone else who believes we should vote to leave the EU at the next referendum. If the Tories keep using has beens like Lord Lawson and the other Eurosceptic rabble then that will turn off supporters. So get back in your box Nigel and let the people support a peoples campaign not an SW1 bubble brigade.\u2019All of which proves that Farage was absolutely right last week when he told the Ukip conference that the problem with Eurosceptic groups is that that were hopelessly divided. As a reminder, this is what he said:One of the problems with the Eurosceptic movement in this country is it has been, for all the 25 years that I have been involved with it, it has very often been fractured, it has very often been divided, it has very often been a valid, pertinent and correct criticism to say that the Eurosceptic groups are all run by egomaniacs - with some exceptions, one hopes - that they can never work with each other, that they all hate each other, that they are more concerned with who is top dog on our side of the argument than fighting the enemy.\n\n2.31pm BST\n14:31\n\nSeverin CarrellJeremy Corbyn has told the Guardian that he would offer Scottish Labour \u201chard work and dour activities\u201d in its fight to close a widening gap with the Scottish National party.In Edinburgh on his first visit since winning the Labour leadership contest, he denied he brought unique properties to the job of rescuing the battered party from a record low in Scottish opinion polls. He said: \u201cOh, there\u2019s no magic solutions. There\u2019s hard work and dour activities and that\u2019s what I\u2019m going to be doing.\u201dCorbyn appeared to be wearying of the relentless media attention. Surrounded by a hoard of photographers and camera crews as he walked from the Scottish parliament to a private meeting with many of Scottish Labour\u2019s 37 MSPs in Edinburgh, Corbyn came close to sarcasm.Asked by the Guardian what he planned to say at his first ever meeting with the Scottish parliamentary group - in the appositely named Serenity cafe, he replied: \u201cWe\u2019re going to have a very interesting and very thoughtful and very intelligent and very well informed discussion and then we\u2019ll let you know.\u201dPressed for a few specific topics, he answered: \u201cLots of things; I imagine we\u2019ll be talking about poverty; we will be talking about austerity; we will be talking about the enormous growth of Labour party membership all over Britain, including Scotland.\u201dAs he posed for the photographers who asked him to fake a wave over their heads rather than towards a cluster of school children outside the Dynamic Earth geological sciences centre, he responded: \u201cOh, waving to the children ... the children are over there guys.\u201dSeveral bystanders were welcoming. He encountered one couple en route to the MSPs meeting, who said \u201cGlad you could visit Jeremy\u201d and \u201cWell done!\u201d. And outside a nearby cafe, a man cradling his baby daughter in the sunshine shouted out to him: \u201cThanks for bringing humanity back to politics. Well done sir.\u201dAfter a brief exchange of pleasantries with Corbyn, the dad told reporters: \u201cI think he\u2019s a true gent and he\u2019s what politics needs.\u201dTV crews sneak footage of @jeremycorbyn addressing @scottishlabour MSPs at the appositely named #Serenity cafe pic.twitter.com/lUAUcUma98\n\n2.05pm BST\n14:05\n\nIn this week\u2019s Spectator James Forsyth has a good article explaining how Boris Johnson\u2019s hopes of becoming the next Conservative leader have faded since the general election. According to Forsyth, Johnson was planning to pounce if the Tories did not do well.Five months ago, allies of Boris Johnson were ready to launch his bid to become leader of the Conservative party. The election was imminent and even David Cameron was fretting that the Tories were going to lose. A sympathetic pollster had prepared the numbers that made the post-defeat case for Boris: he extended the Tories\u2019 reach, and a party that had failed to gain a majority for 23 years desperately needed a greater reach. There was a policy agenda ready to magnify this appeal, too: compassionate conservatism, based around adopting the Living Wage. Boris had kept a plausible distance from these preparations. But one of those charged by No. 10 with sniffing out plots against the prime minister says of the Boris operation, \u2018Everything was geared to make it happen. Anything short of just shy of a majority, and it would have been in play.\u2019But the result turned out differently, and now George Osborne is seen as the favourite to succeed David Cameron. Not all is lost for Johnson, though. Today Ipsos MORI has released a poll showing that, amongst the public at large, Johnson is more popular than the chancellor. People say having Johnson as leader would be more likely to make them want to vote Conservative. But Osborne is more popular with Conservative supporters (who presumably include members, who will have the final say when they vote for the next leader).One in four (27%) say the London Mayor would be the candidate to make them most likely to vote Conservative at the next election. Falling behind Boris Johnson is Theresa May with 17%, George Osborne with 15%, Sajid Javid with 4% and Michael Gove with 3% (although 42% of Labour supporters, 28% of Liberal Democrats and 16% of UKIP supporters said \u2018none of them\u2019 would likely make them vote Conservative). Conservative supporters are though more likely to support George Osborne over Boris Johnson with one in three (32%) opting for the Chancellor versus three in ten (29%) choosing the London Mayor. Eighteen percent of Conservatives back Theresa May, 4% Michael Gove and 3% Sajid Javid.\n\n1.45pm BST\n13:45\n\nJeremy Corbyn told journalists that Labour was \u201cdoing great\u201d as he arrived at the Scottish parliament. According to the Press Association, he said:We\u2019re doing great, party membership is going up after my first conference as leader and things are going really well.He also said that he was looking forward to a \u201cgood chat\u201d with Kezia Dugdale and that they would be discussing how they campaign ahead of the Scottish elections next year.\n\n1.08pm BST\n13:08\n\nJeremy Corbyn has arrived at Holyrood for his meeting with Labour MSPs..@jeremycorbyn gets a #Holyrood welcome: arrives to wall of cameras as he bids to help save @scottishlabour pic.twitter.com/MdfT0d8D4K.@jeremycorbyn has arrived in Scotland to meet with @kdugdalemsp and members of the labour movement. pic.twitter.com/aSfodRlrcM\n\n12.27pm BST\n12:27\n\nBuzzFeed\u2019s Jamie Ross is covering Jeremy Corbyn in Scotland.Notable there aren't any angry men with saltires here to welcome Corbyn. Miliband was trapped in a shopping centre last time he visited.\n\n12.17pm BST\n12:17\n\nSky News\u2019s Faisal Islam has been tweeting about Jeremy Corbyn and Scotland.In Edi @jeremycorbyn tries to win back Scotland for Labour. Yday he told me: issues here are \"poverty, inequality, loss of college places...Corbyn re Scotland \"..issues are need for investment, welfare bill and whether or not Scottish govt uses tax revenue raising powers or not..In ydays interview, Corbyn said \"scottish people have a right to make their own decision... There may or may not be another referendum...\"Corbyn also pointed out in yesterday's interview that the SNP \"have a bit of a problem\" with their finance spokesperson\n\n11.38am BST\n11:38\n\nAs I said earlier, Lord Lawson\u2019s appointment as president of Conservatives for Britain is the latest development in a struggle between Leave.EU and the For Britain coalition for the right to be the lead out campaign in the EU referendum. (See 10.30am.) Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has now hit back, suggesting the For Britain camp are too Westminster-focused. In a statement he said:Whilst I welcome Lord Lawson in his new role as head of Conservatives for Britain which will apparently be be campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, there are a few issues we must make clear.Whilst winning support from Westminster figures is important, this referendum cannot be won in Westminster but out across the country. That is why I have been so impressed by the Leave.EU campaign which is signing up thousands of supporters every week and why I and other Ukip MEPs have been going across the country holding public meetings on the Say No to EU national tour, speaking to thousands of voters.Lord Lawson calls for all to support his campaign [see 10.30am] but the fact that it is called Conservatives for Britain and that he is so intimately associated with the Thatcher years is bound to limit appeal to Conservative voters. The Leave campaign must reach across the spectrum to everyone.As I have always said, Ukip will work with anyone who wants to help get the UK out of the EU. My party cannot win this referendum on our own. But it cannot be won without us either.Updated\nat 2.43pm BST\n\n\n11.14am BST\n11:14\n\nIn the New Statesman Suzanne Hall has written up the findings of two focus groups conducted in Croydon Central to find out how voters reacted to Jeremy Corbyn\u2019s conference speech.The findings were mixed. Participants warmed to Corbyn personally.A common refrain from participants was how Corbyn appeared to be \u201cgenuine\u201d and someone that they could relate to. This was evident from both his image \u2013 participants noted his appearance was certainly less slick than his predecessors \u2013 but also his background. This experience lent him a credibility that they felt had been lacking from Westminster for some time.But they were not so positive about some of what he had to say.At least Miliband intended to talk about the deficit at the 2014 conference. This time, participants sensed the omission was because Corbyn only wanted to talk the things that mattered to him \u2013 not them. For example, his talk of human rights and a social Europe seemed unrelated to the issues they felt were facing the country. \u201cThe first thing he wants to talk about is a 17 year old boy in Saudi Arabia \u2013 I don\u2019t know who he is! I have never heard of him. Why is this important to me?\u201d\u201cA social Europe? What is that? Is that the EU? A lot of this went over my head. If they want people to vote, then they need to make it clear what they are talking about.\u201d Rather, they wanted to hear about things like the economy and immigration \u2013 and not in the context of the refugee crisis. The full article is here.\n\n10.30am BST\n10:30\n\nLord Lawson, the former chancellor who is becoming president of Conservatives for Britain, told the Today programme this morning that he would not share a platform with Leave.EU, the out campaign set up by the Ukip donor Arron Banks and unveiled at the Ukip conference last week. Asked if he would share a platform with them, Lawson replied:No, we welcome others to come and support us. We are not going to support anybody else but we are open to all sorts of others from all parties and none to come and rally to the Conservatives for Britain group.Conservatives for Britain are linked to Business for Britain and Labour for Britain, and they are shortly expected to unite and form a cross-party For Britain campaign. For Britain and Leave.eu are both competing to be designated as the lead out campaign by the Electoral Commission. The lead campaign gets public funding and free mailing, as well as taking charge of the campaign broadcasts.Lawson also said that he was not anti-European.The point is I am not anti-European \u2013 I am speaking to you from my home in France \u2013 the problem is not Europe, the problem is the European Union and the European Union is way past its sell-by date.And he explained why he believed David Cameron could not achieve significant EU reform.The European Union first of all cannot be changed either in its own structure or in the relationship between the union as such and the member states. Treaty change can only be agreed unanimously \u2013 you can\u2019t have treaty change unless there is unanimous agreement. And all the evidence is \u2013 and I have been around a long time, I don\u2019t make this judgement lightly \u2013 but all the evidence is that that unanimity is not going to be forthcoming. Indeed we will only have a few friends who will support the sort of changes we wish to see.Updated\nat 12.00pm BST\n\n\n9.49am BST\n09:49\n\nAs my colleague Matthew Weaver reports, the SNP has responded to the news that Jeremy Corbyn is visiting Scotland by challenging him \u2018to clarify his position on Trident after his admission that he would never use nuclear weapons was openly criticised by members of his shadow cabinet\u201d.The SNP intervention has come in the form of a statement from Stewart Hosie, the SNP deputy leader. He claims Labour divisions on Trident and austerity \u201cwill allow the Tories to steam roller through their cuts to social security and the spending of \u00a3100bn of nuclear weapons\u201d. That\u2019s a questionable claim, on two counts. First, although Labour is clearly split over Trident, the divisions over austerity are much more nuanced and the party in parliament is very likely to unite behind Jeremy Corbyn in opposing the welfare bill. Second, even if every Labour MP lined up with the SNP to vote against Trident, Trident renewal would almost certainly still get passed because of the Conservative majority.\n\n9.25am BST\n09:25\n\nAfter a hectic five days in Brighton Jeremy Corbyn might feel he deserves a break, but instead the Labour head is heading for Scotland where he is due to hold meetings with MSPs, union leaders, council leaders and activists. Speaking in advance, he said he wanted to make it clear that Kezia Dugdale, the Scottish Labour leader, was in charge of Scottish Labour. A previous leader in Scotland, Johann Lamont, complained about London treating the Scottish party like a \u201cbranch office\u201d. Corbyn said:Under my leadership there will be no question about who is in charge of the Scottish Labour party. Kezia Dugdale is leader of our party in Scotland and I will be working alongside her to win back support for Labour.Corbyn also said in advance of his visit that the SNP was backward-looking.The stakes are high for Scotland. People can\u2019t afford a Tory Government whose policies are making people work harder for less or an SNP Government that is intent on having the arguments of the past rather than looking to the future. It\u2019s time for a Labour Government that would put our young people first and make sure that we are narrowing the gap between the richest and the rest.Other than Corbyn\u2019s visit to Scotland today, it looks relatively quiet, although I will post any reaction to the news that Lord Lawson, the former chancellor, will lead the Conservative campaign to leave the EU.If you want to follow me or get in touch on Twitter, I\u2019m on @AndrewSparrow.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Jeremy Corbyn", "Kezia Dugdale"], "title": "Jeremy Corbyn visits Scotland - Politics live"},{"date": "2015-12-21T12:13:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amer Masri recalls the overwhelming relief of one Syrian refugee who arrived in Scotland a few weeks ago.\u201cHe was so grateful. He kept repeating \u2018Thank you Scotland! Thank you Nicola Sturgeon!\u2019 after every phrase I translated for him.\u201dMasri is himself a refugee, who fled the Assad regime in 2011 and now works as a research scientist in Edinburgh, where he lives with his wife and two young children.Over the past month, Masri and a group of other local Syrians have been visiting their newly arrived country-folk, helping where they can with the inevitable stresses and strangeness of negotiating a foreign land in the middle of winter. \u201cIt\u2019s to show them we are here, that this country gave us dignity and freedom, and that encourages them,\u201d explains Masri. Their initial anxieties have not been so banal as the weather, he adds. \u201cWe try to emphasise that the police in Scotland are here to help them, that they are not in danger from them. We\u2019ve also tried to explain that this is an equal country, whether between those with education or no education, and importantly that women have the same rights as men.\u201dOn 17 November, the first charter flight carrying families mainly from camps bordering Syria touched down at Glasgow airport during a relentless downpour. Since then, more than 300 men, women and children have been settled across the country by half of Scotland\u2019s 32 local authorities. In a reflection of the country\u2019s readiness in comparison to other parts of the UK, Scotland has welcomed one in three of the thousand refugees David Cameron agreed to take before the end of the year, although the Scottish government\u2019s proportionate commitment was to take 10% of the total number over five years.With the first plane-load landing days after the Paris attacks in November, concerns were raised that some people would conflate the refugees\u2019 arrival with the terrorist threat. There was a suspected arson attack on a mosque to the north of Glasgow and Police Scotland confirmed an immediate spike in hate crimes later that week. The day before the first arrivals, Humza Yousaf, the chair of the refugee taskforce which has coordinated the resettlement programme, and the Scottish government\u2019s only Muslim minister, confirmed that he had informed the police of the Islamophobic abuse he received on social media.But a month later, Yousaf praised the public\u2019s response to the refugee crisis, saying: \u201cI am deeply proud of the Scottish people who have extended the warmest possible hand of friendship to our newest neighbours.\u201dSpeaking before the final refugee taskforce meeting of the year, he added: \u201cI\u2019ve heard heartwarming tales \u2013 people walking up to refugees in the street and giving them hugs of welcome, offers of friendship, support and practical help, from arranging special community film screenings for refugees to giving them welcome gifts of food hampers, warm clothes and hot water bottles.\u201dMeanwhile, local communities have responded in their own, sometimes ambivalent, ways. As the Guardian reported, a Scottish Defence League protest in Ayrshire was countered by refugee rights activists, while in Renfrewshire a number of internet trolls posting bile about the resettlement plans were exposed by the Paisley Daily Express with a front page headline that read: \u201cShame on you.\u201d Local welcome campaigns have sprung up across the country, like Glasgow\u2019s Refuweegee project, which takes its name from the slang term for a Glaswegian \u2013 Weegee. It is the brainchild of Selina Hales, a city native who was prompted by news coverage of Syrians travelling across Europe seeking shelter. Its volunteers are putting together welcome packs, which include a handwritten letter from a local as well as Glasgow-appropriate items including obligatory umbrellas. \u201cI wanted to capture that real Glasgow welcome,\u201d says Hales. \u201cPeople don\u2019t just want to welcome people but to embrace them and make them feel like a local.\u201dScottish authorities are aware that those listed by the UNHCR for immediate resettlement include some of the most vulnerable and traumatised individuals, and have protected their privacy as they begin their new lives in Scotland. As Masri confirms: \u201cA lot of them have been through tragic and traumatic experiences, some were detained and tortured, and there is a big problem with post-traumatic stress. On top of that is the stress that moving to another continent and culture imposes, so their psychological situation is very sensitive.\u201dBut the Syrians he is in contact with have more workaday concerns, too. \u201cThere is the weather and the culture shock at the beginning, the short days in winter and the temperature. The pattern of daily life is different too, when the shops close and when life on the streets stops. In Syria we have cafes that are open late at night, but here there are only pubs and bars.\u201d The language barrier is an immediate problem, says Masri, particularly because many of the new arrivals come from rural parts of Syria where access to education is scant. \u201cHow can they learn a different language when they don\u2019t know how to read and write in Arabic? So we are trying to teach them in parallel Arabic and English.\u201dOn the Isle of Bute, where 12 Syrian families arrived in the seaside town of Rothesay in early December, the council has hired two dedicated translators to work with the new arrivals. Related: 'People want to help': Scottish town prepares to host Syrian refugees Locals hope the setting will suit their new guests. As Clellan Sneddon, executive director of community services for Argyll and Bute council, explains: \u201cWe have got people who are from smaller towns or rural backgrounds and therefore we think the transition, the match, is a little better.\u201dVolunteers on Bute are quick to point out that their refugees don\u2019t actually know one another. A pop-up community centre, based in a church hall and staffed by locals, has proved essential, allowing women with small babies to support each other as well as providing a focus for visits from education and social workers.The centre has also allowed the refugees access to donated clothing in a more dignified environment: the items are displayed on rails so that the Syrians can choose themselves as though in a shop, with private changing areas for men and women. There is an ongoing difficulty that, while huge amounts of clothing have been collected, the one thing that people don\u2019t donate secondhand is underwear, especially thermals. There is no mosque on Bute so the possibility of a city imam travelling along the coast to conduct Friday prayers was discussed, while local supermarkets made inquiries about stocking halal meat. Concerns about lack of pulses in the Co-op were solved when Yotam Ottolenghi got in touch, offering to send chickpeas, spices and juices. A large donation of halal products was made soon after the refugees arrived and now the community centre hosts prayers every Friday from 11am to 1pm.Over Christmas, volunteers will continue to staff the centre. Most recently there was a call for multiple car seats to transport the younger family members to a showing of the local Christmas pantomime, Puss In Boots. The children found the concept of a dame hilarious.As Masri observes: \u201cIt\u2019s the children who adapt the quickest. They are like sponges.\u201d", "tags": ["Refugees", "World news", "Scotland", "UK news", "Immigration and asylum", "Migration"], "title": "Syrian refugees in Scotland: cold weather but warm welcome"},{"date": "2015-12-16T18:55:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland\u2019s finance secretary raided council spending and imposed a new tax on second homes, as he boosted funding for the crisis-hit NHS in his final budget before next year\u2019s Scottish election.Taking his cue from George Osborne\u2019s budget, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney slashed spending for councils by 3.5% and said most second homes would have a 3% surcharge on their purchase price, on top of the normal property tax, raising up to \u00a329m next year.In a sign he has been stung by repeated attacks by opponents and economists for allowing health spending to lag and by growing evidence of NHS funding shortfalls, Swinney announced a \u00a3500m increase in NHS budgets. That would increase overall health spending to \u00a313bn.\u201cThe nature and scale of the challenges facing our NHS \u2013 in particular the challenge of an ageing population \u2013 mean that additional money alone will not equip it properly for the future,\u201d he said. \u201cTo be blunt, if all we do is fund our NHS to deliver more of the same, it will not cope with the pressures it faces.\u201dThe cuts to councils were alleviated by a transfer of \u00a3250m from NHS spending to increase social care services by local authorities, but furious council leaders accused Swinney of decimating their workforce. Excluding that \u00a3250m switch in social care funding, council budgets are being cut by more than 7% in real terms across other areas of spending, forcing up fees for services. Related: Scottish government to freeze income tax rates in pre-election budget Glasgow, with the country\u2019s poorest residents and already preparing to axe 3,000 jobs to save \u00a3103m, will lose a further \u00a344m. David O\u2019Neill, the leader of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, said the job losses from a \u00a3350m cut in overall funding which would follow equalled 50 times the job losses from Tata\u2019s steelworks at Motherwell and Cambuslang. \u201cA cut of 3.5% is catastrophic for jobs and services within Scottish local government \u2013 because the harsh reality is that it actually translates to real job cuts that hit real families, in real communities throughout Scotland. Everyone will be hurt by this.\u201dAs expected, Swinney froze Scotland\u2019s council tax rates for the ninth year running and held income taxes at their current rates despite having new powers to raise or lower income tax from April 2016. Inviting Tory accusations of timidity for failing to use his new powers to fund public services after he complained about a 0.7% cut in his Treasury grant, Swinney said the current income tax reforms were too crude.They only allowed the Scottish government to raise or lower tax rates by exactly the same amount, he said, and that would disproportionately help the richest. \u201cSo the simple fact is, this tax power does not enable me to target help to those on the lowest incomes,\u201d Swinney said. \u201cI do however have the power to ensure that this tax does not inflict an additional burden on those on low incomes.\u201dIn the most far-reaching reforms yet to Holyrood\u2019s tax powers, it will be able to set different income tax rates and bands from April 2017. Swinney said he would set out his plans for those new Scotland-only rates before the Holyrood elections next May. Swinney repeatedly cut other budgets to fund the health spending, a modest increase in frontline police spending and a 1% real terms increase in social housing spending. Rail spending was cut by \u00a357m or 7% to \u00a3751m but capital spending on trunk roads and motorways went up by \u00a3126m overall. The arts saw some of the heaviest losses: prominent national companies such as Scottish Ballet, the National Theatre of Scotland and Scottish Opera, had their funds cut by 17%, losing \u00a34.7m. Creative Scotland, the arts funding agency, had its budget cut by \u00a35m or 7%.There was a \u00a315m or 2.6% real terms cut in environment spending, hitting Scottish Natural Heritage, Marine Scotland, the Forestry Commission, the Scottish Environment Protection Agency and Zero Waste. Overall spending for justice and courts was cut by nearly \u00a3100m, or 3.6%. The Scottish Prison Service lost \u00a345m or 11%.  Related: Scottish councils hold record debts of \u00a314.8bn \u2013 and are still borrowing He was ridiculed after giving opposition parties and the media an advance copy of his speech which was heavily censored: 103 lines of text dealing with the council and income tax freeze were redacted by black lines. His only unexpected tax announcement was a \u00a3130m rise in business rates for large firms and supermarkets. Swinney said last year\u2019s budget statement had also been redacted in advance to withhold his new property tax rates until he disclosed those in the chamber.Jackie Baillie, Scottish Labour\u2019s finance spokeswoman, said Swinney\u2019s statement concealed a series of heavy cuts. \u201cThis is the most important budget since devolution, delivered by a party who promised to stand up for Scotland against Tory austerity. But it doesn\u2019t deliver fairer taxes, a long term plan for Scotland or an anti-austerity alternative. Local services like our schools, roads and care of the elderly will face massive cuts,\u201d she said.Murdo Fraser, the Scottish Tory finance spokesman, said he welcomed the income tax freeze but said the new tax power prevented Swinney from repeatedly blaming the Treasury for his budget decisions. \u201cIt cannot be forgotten that John Swinney had the choice in the matter, and he chose not to increase the resource available to him by levying additional taxes,\u201d he said.\u201cFor years, the finance secretary has portrayed himself as a prisoner of Westminster austerity, but now that he has been given the key to the door of his cell, he has decided not to use it.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland budget: NHS spending boosted as council funds slashed"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T14:50:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Social enterprise has a long and proud history in Scotland but the results of the country\u2019s first comprehensive sector census (pdf) show that it is thriving today as never before. We asked Gerry Higgins, the CEO of Glasgow-based CEIS and a founder of the Social Enterprise World Forum, to draw on his 30 years of experience in explaining some of the most striking findings. What has the census told you about social enterprise in your country?  Related: What is the critical mass needed for a social enterprise to make a difference? It has provided a wealth of evidence about the scale, characteristics, contribution and aspirations of the social enterprise community. It has also reaffirmed the growing significance of social enterprise to our communities.Social enterprises have been shown to be active in almost every part of the economy, from the creative industries to sustainable tourism. Despite the historical roots of social enterprise, many of those active today have only emerged over the last decade and the pace of new enterprise formation appears to be accelerating each year.As Jonathan Coburn of Social Value Lab has noted, \u201cthe overall scale of the social enterprise sector has come as a surprise to many; in terms of the number of social enterprises operating, their employment and economic contribution. The figures suggest a much larger sector than previously thought and one that appears to be growing fast.\u201dA large part of the social enterprise community in Scotland has grown under the radar over many years. It comprises small and micro enterprises strongly rooted in a single place \u2013 villages, towns or neighbourhoods \u2013 that manage important amenities and services such as community buildings, childcare and so on. \"Social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing.\"22% of Scottish social enterprises are based in the highlands and islands, which are home to only 9% of the population. What accounts for this? In these areas social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing. It is critical to the region. This also reflects 50 years of support from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), an agency that recognised the significance of social enterprise as a sustainable economic model long before others. HIE understands that in communities with challenges of remoteness and distance from markets, the social and community enterprise sector has intrinsic importance. In these communities, the connections between businesses and communities are so close and there is an innate sense of people \u201cdoing things for themselves\u201d which drives a vibrant social economy.The social enterprise business model is an active choice for many of the region\u2019s most innovative entrepreneurs and receives direct support, tailored products and services, account management and capital investment from HIE. The agency also provides support so that the leadership, innovation and the business dimensions of the sector can be strengthened.60% of social enterprises are led by women and more than 70% report that more than half their employees are female. Why are they so much more inclusive than traditional businesses? Related: Top tips from Thailand on starting a successful social enterprise Gender equality is a longstanding problem in the commercial sector. For instance, only 9% of executive directorships in FTSE100 companies are held by women (pdf). In Scotland and elsewhere however, social enterprise appears not to have a glass ceiling preventing female professionals to progress to leadership levels. Or as the Social Enterprise UK 2013 sector survey noted, \u201csocial enterprise is the natural home of the female entrepreneur.\u201dThe high participation rate of women in the sector may be partially due to the fact that social enterprises tend not to match commercial sector pay levels but often offer a greater range of secondary benefits. Flexible working is commonplace and many have family friendly working conditions which is a critical factor for many female employees. Whether gender equality leads to democratic workplaces or vice versa, the traditions and values of social enterprise result in more participative and less hierarchical workplaces than in the commercial sector. These workplaces are based on equality, openness and fairness and this leads to better productivity and lower turnover as employees are engaged and motivated.How and why has the Scottish government supported the sector?The Scottish government has supported social enterprise over the last decade, with political leadership from the current deputy first minister and cabinet secretary for finance and the economy, John Swinney. It has worked with the sector to develop an ecosystem for social enterprise, investing in business support, social investment, entrepreneurship development, leadership and education, opening markets and internationalisation. There are a range of reasons for this support. The census points to a sector that has shown resilience in the face of economic recession and with employment now returning to pre-recession levels, jobs created in social enterprises are more likely to have balance in terms of equality, gender and pay.  Related: Are Anglo-American social enterprise models stunting the social economy\u2019s growth? Less cohesive economies don\u2019t do as well because parts of society aren\u2019t benefiting. Therefore one of the key roles of social enterprise is to provide pathways to employment for a wide range of people, especially those who need support. The economy is expected to grow in the next decade but if the gap between rich and poor widens in this period, the national economic strategy will have failed. Social enterprise bridges economic and social pillars and has a unique opportunity to assist the national economy to create opportunities where conventional businesses will not. After a decade of sector and government collaboration, work is now underway to co-produce a social enterprise strategy to reflect the potential and contribution of the sector through to 2025.What do you hope the census will achieve? Having this wealth of evidence at our disposal, the next stage is to continue to build a collective response, within government and across those organisations that represent and support the sector. It enables us to set priorities and make informed choices about where we must invest to grow the sector. It also enables us to tell a convincing story about the sector and its potential, which is essential if we are to broaden the sources of support and finance available.Download Social Enterprise in Scotland: Census 2015 here.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Social enterprise takes centre stage in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-01T14:18:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n3.18pm BST\n15:18\n\nThat\u2019s all from me for today.I\u2019ll be back on Sunday, blogging from the Conservative conference and starting with David Cameron\u2019s interview on the Andrew Marr Show.Thanks for the comments.\n\n3.00pm BST\n15:00\n\nThe Eurosceptic split between Leave.EU (the Ukip-associated out campaign) and the For Britain group (which is more Conservative/business orientated) - see 11.38am - is now getting more ugly.Earlier Nigel Farage \u201cwelcomed\u201d the fact that Lord Lawson was taking over as president of Conservatives for Britain, but said Lawson and his group were too Westminster-focused.Now Leave.EU, which Farage supports, has criticised Lawson strongly. As Sebastian Payne reports at Coffee House, Leave.EU has issued a statement denouncing Lawson as a \u201chas been\u201d who should \u201cshut up\u201d. Here it is in full.The announcement that Lord Lawson is \u2018leading\u2019 the campaign to leave the EU is wrong. He\u2019s leading \u2018a\u2019 campaign that is run by the \u2018Westminster bubble\u2019 from SW1. When are these politicians going to learn that this campaign cannot we won from SW1. It has to appeal to the people, not the small clique of Eurosceptic Tories.It would be better if the Eurosceptic Tories just \u2018shut-up\u2019 as they are going to alienate the vast majority of people who will look at this campaign as a Tory stich-up.The Leave.EU campaign is about the people of Great Britain which includes Labour, Lib Dem UKIP Tories and anyone else who believes we should vote to leave the EU at the next referendum. If the Tories keep using has beens like Lord Lawson and the other Eurosceptic rabble then that will turn off supporters. So get back in your box Nigel and let the people support a peoples campaign not an SW1 bubble brigade.\u2019All of which proves that Farage was absolutely right last week when he told the Ukip conference that the problem with Eurosceptic groups is that that were hopelessly divided. As a reminder, this is what he said:One of the problems with the Eurosceptic movement in this country is it has been, for all the 25 years that I have been involved with it, it has very often been fractured, it has very often been divided, it has very often been a valid, pertinent and correct criticism to say that the Eurosceptic groups are all run by egomaniacs - with some exceptions, one hopes - that they can never work with each other, that they all hate each other, that they are more concerned with who is top dog on our side of the argument than fighting the enemy.\n\n2.31pm BST\n14:31\n\nSeverin CarrellJeremy Corbyn has told the Guardian that he would offer Scottish Labour \u201chard work and dour activities\u201d in its fight to close a widening gap with the Scottish National party.In Edinburgh on his first visit since winning the Labour leadership contest, he denied he brought unique properties to the job of rescuing the battered party from a record low in Scottish opinion polls. He said: \u201cOh, there\u2019s no magic solutions. There\u2019s hard work and dour activities and that\u2019s what I\u2019m going to be doing.\u201dCorbyn appeared to be wearying of the relentless media attention. Surrounded by a hoard of photographers and camera crews as he walked from the Scottish parliament to a private meeting with many of Scottish Labour\u2019s 37 MSPs in Edinburgh, Corbyn came close to sarcasm.Asked by the Guardian what he planned to say at his first ever meeting with the Scottish parliamentary group - in the appositely named Serenity cafe, he replied: \u201cWe\u2019re going to have a very interesting and very thoughtful and very intelligent and very well informed discussion and then we\u2019ll let you know.\u201dPressed for a few specific topics, he answered: \u201cLots of things; I imagine we\u2019ll be talking about poverty; we will be talking about austerity; we will be talking about the enormous growth of Labour party membership all over Britain, including Scotland.\u201dAs he posed for the photographers who asked him to fake a wave over their heads rather than towards a cluster of school children outside the Dynamic Earth geological sciences centre, he responded: \u201cOh, waving to the children ... the children are over there guys.\u201dSeveral bystanders were welcoming. He encountered one couple en route to the MSPs meeting, who said \u201cGlad you could visit Jeremy\u201d and \u201cWell done!\u201d. And outside a nearby cafe, a man cradling his baby daughter in the sunshine shouted out to him: \u201cThanks for bringing humanity back to politics. Well done sir.\u201dAfter a brief exchange of pleasantries with Corbyn, the dad told reporters: \u201cI think he\u2019s a true gent and he\u2019s what politics needs.\u201dTV crews sneak footage of @jeremycorbyn addressing @scottishlabour MSPs at the appositely named #Serenity cafe pic.twitter.com/lUAUcUma98\n\n2.05pm BST\n14:05\n\nIn this week\u2019s Spectator James Forsyth has a good article explaining how Boris Johnson\u2019s hopes of becoming the next Conservative leader have faded since the general election. According to Forsyth, Johnson was planning to pounce if the Tories did not do well.Five months ago, allies of Boris Johnson were ready to launch his bid to become leader of the Conservative party. The election was imminent and even David Cameron was fretting that the Tories were going to lose. A sympathetic pollster had prepared the numbers that made the post-defeat case for Boris: he extended the Tories\u2019 reach, and a party that had failed to gain a majority for 23 years desperately needed a greater reach. There was a policy agenda ready to magnify this appeal, too: compassionate conservatism, based around adopting the Living Wage. Boris had kept a plausible distance from these preparations. But one of those charged by No. 10 with sniffing out plots against the prime minister says of the Boris operation, \u2018Everything was geared to make it happen. Anything short of just shy of a majority, and it would have been in play.\u2019But the result turned out differently, and now George Osborne is seen as the favourite to succeed David Cameron. Not all is lost for Johnson, though. Today Ipsos MORI has released a poll showing that, amongst the public at large, Johnson is more popular than the chancellor. People say having Johnson as leader would be more likely to make them want to vote Conservative. But Osborne is more popular with Conservative supporters (who presumably include members, who will have the final say when they vote for the next leader).One in four (27%) say the London Mayor would be the candidate to make them most likely to vote Conservative at the next election. Falling behind Boris Johnson is Theresa May with 17%, George Osborne with 15%, Sajid Javid with 4% and Michael Gove with 3% (although 42% of Labour supporters, 28% of Liberal Democrats and 16% of UKIP supporters said \u2018none of them\u2019 would likely make them vote Conservative). Conservative supporters are though more likely to support George Osborne over Boris Johnson with one in three (32%) opting for the Chancellor versus three in ten (29%) choosing the London Mayor. Eighteen percent of Conservatives back Theresa May, 4% Michael Gove and 3% Sajid Javid.\n\n1.45pm BST\n13:45\n\nJeremy Corbyn told journalists that Labour was \u201cdoing great\u201d as he arrived at the Scottish parliament. According to the Press Association, he said:We\u2019re doing great, party membership is going up after my first conference as leader and things are going really well.He also said that he was looking forward to a \u201cgood chat\u201d with Kezia Dugdale and that they would be discussing how they campaign ahead of the Scottish elections next year.\n\n1.08pm BST\n13:08\n\nJeremy Corbyn has arrived at Holyrood for his meeting with Labour MSPs..@jeremycorbyn gets a #Holyrood welcome: arrives to wall of cameras as he bids to help save @scottishlabour pic.twitter.com/MdfT0d8D4K.@jeremycorbyn has arrived in Scotland to meet with @kdugdalemsp and members of the labour movement. pic.twitter.com/aSfodRlrcM\n\n12.27pm BST\n12:27\n\nBuzzFeed\u2019s Jamie Ross is covering Jeremy Corbyn in Scotland.Notable there aren't any angry men with saltires here to welcome Corbyn. Miliband was trapped in a shopping centre last time he visited.\n\n12.17pm BST\n12:17\n\nSky News\u2019s Faisal Islam has been tweeting about Jeremy Corbyn and Scotland.In Edi @jeremycorbyn tries to win back Scotland for Labour. Yday he told me: issues here are \"poverty, inequality, loss of college places...Corbyn re Scotland \"..issues are need for investment, welfare bill and whether or not Scottish govt uses tax revenue raising powers or not..In ydays interview, Corbyn said \"scottish people have a right to make their own decision... There may or may not be another referendum...\"Corbyn also pointed out in yesterday's interview that the SNP \"have a bit of a problem\" with their finance spokesperson\n\n11.38am BST\n11:38\n\nAs I said earlier, Lord Lawson\u2019s appointment as president of Conservatives for Britain is the latest development in a struggle between Leave.EU and the For Britain coalition for the right to be the lead out campaign in the EU referendum. (See 10.30am.) Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has now hit back, suggesting the For Britain camp are too Westminster-focused. In a statement he said:Whilst I welcome Lord Lawson in his new role as head of Conservatives for Britain which will apparently be be campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, there are a few issues we must make clear.Whilst winning support from Westminster figures is important, this referendum cannot be won in Westminster but out across the country. That is why I have been so impressed by the Leave.EU campaign which is signing up thousands of supporters every week and why I and other Ukip MEPs have been going across the country holding public meetings on the Say No to EU national tour, speaking to thousands of voters.Lord Lawson calls for all to support his campaign [see 10.30am] but the fact that it is called Conservatives for Britain and that he is so intimately associated with the Thatcher years is bound to limit appeal to Conservative voters. The Leave campaign must reach across the spectrum to everyone.As I have always said, Ukip will work with anyone who wants to help get the UK out of the EU. My party cannot win this referendum on our own. But it cannot be won without us either.Updated\nat 2.43pm BST\n\n\n11.14am BST\n11:14\n\nIn the New Statesman Suzanne Hall has written up the findings of two focus groups conducted in Croydon Central to find out how voters reacted to Jeremy Corbyn\u2019s conference speech.The findings were mixed. Participants warmed to Corbyn personally.A common refrain from participants was how Corbyn appeared to be \u201cgenuine\u201d and someone that they could relate to. This was evident from both his image \u2013 participants noted his appearance was certainly less slick than his predecessors \u2013 but also his background. This experience lent him a credibility that they felt had been lacking from Westminster for some time.But they were not so positive about some of what he had to say.At least Miliband intended to talk about the deficit at the 2014 conference. This time, participants sensed the omission was because Corbyn only wanted to talk the things that mattered to him \u2013 not them. For example, his talk of human rights and a social Europe seemed unrelated to the issues they felt were facing the country. \u201cThe first thing he wants to talk about is a 17 year old boy in Saudi Arabia \u2013 I don\u2019t know who he is! I have never heard of him. Why is this important to me?\u201d\u201cA social Europe? What is that? Is that the EU? A lot of this went over my head. If they want people to vote, then they need to make it clear what they are talking about.\u201d Rather, they wanted to hear about things like the economy and immigration \u2013 and not in the context of the refugee crisis. The full article is here.\n\n10.30am BST\n10:30\n\nLord Lawson, the former chancellor who is becoming president of Conservatives for Britain, told the Today programme this morning that he would not share a platform with Leave.EU, the out campaign set up by the Ukip donor Arron Banks and unveiled at the Ukip conference last week. Asked if he would share a platform with them, Lawson replied:No, we welcome others to come and support us. We are not going to support anybody else but we are open to all sorts of others from all parties and none to come and rally to the Conservatives for Britain group.Conservatives for Britain are linked to Business for Britain and Labour for Britain, and they are shortly expected to unite and form a cross-party For Britain campaign. For Britain and Leave.eu are both competing to be designated as the lead out campaign by the Electoral Commission. The lead campaign gets public funding and free mailing, as well as taking charge of the campaign broadcasts.Lawson also said that he was not anti-European.The point is I am not anti-European \u2013 I am speaking to you from my home in France \u2013 the problem is not Europe, the problem is the European Union and the European Union is way past its sell-by date.And he explained why he believed David Cameron could not achieve significant EU reform.The European Union first of all cannot be changed either in its own structure or in the relationship between the union as such and the member states. Treaty change can only be agreed unanimously \u2013 you can\u2019t have treaty change unless there is unanimous agreement. And all the evidence is \u2013 and I have been around a long time, I don\u2019t make this judgement lightly \u2013 but all the evidence is that that unanimity is not going to be forthcoming. Indeed we will only have a few friends who will support the sort of changes we wish to see.Updated\nat 12.00pm BST\n\n\n9.49am BST\n09:49\n\nAs my colleague Matthew Weaver reports, the SNP has responded to the news that Jeremy Corbyn is visiting Scotland by challenging him \u2018to clarify his position on Trident after his admission that he would never use nuclear weapons was openly criticised by members of his shadow cabinet\u201d.The SNP intervention has come in the form of a statement from Stewart Hosie, the SNP deputy leader. He claims Labour divisions on Trident and austerity \u201cwill allow the Tories to steam roller through their cuts to social security and the spending of \u00a3100bn of nuclear weapons\u201d. That\u2019s a questionable claim, on two counts. First, although Labour is clearly split over Trident, the divisions over austerity are much more nuanced and the party in parliament is very likely to unite behind Jeremy Corbyn in opposing the welfare bill. Second, even if every Labour MP lined up with the SNP to vote against Trident, Trident renewal would almost certainly still get passed because of the Conservative majority.\n\n9.25am BST\n09:25\n\nAfter a hectic five days in Brighton Jeremy Corbyn might feel he deserves a break, but instead the Labour head is heading for Scotland where he is due to hold meetings with MSPs, union leaders, council leaders and activists. Speaking in advance, he said he wanted to make it clear that Kezia Dugdale, the Scottish Labour leader, was in charge of Scottish Labour. A previous leader in Scotland, Johann Lamont, complained about London treating the Scottish party like a \u201cbranch office\u201d. Corbyn said:Under my leadership there will be no question about who is in charge of the Scottish Labour party. Kezia Dugdale is leader of our party in Scotland and I will be working alongside her to win back support for Labour.Corbyn also said in advance of his visit that the SNP was backward-looking.The stakes are high for Scotland. People can\u2019t afford a Tory Government whose policies are making people work harder for less or an SNP Government that is intent on having the arguments of the past rather than looking to the future. It\u2019s time for a Labour Government that would put our young people first and make sure that we are narrowing the gap between the richest and the rest.Other than Corbyn\u2019s visit to Scotland today, it looks relatively quiet, although I will post any reaction to the news that Lord Lawson, the former chancellor, will lead the Conservative campaign to leave the EU.If you want to follow me or get in touch on Twitter, I\u2019m on @AndrewSparrow.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Jeremy Corbyn", "Kezia Dugdale"], "title": "Jeremy Corbyn visits Scotland - Politics live"},{"date": "2015-12-21T12:13:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amer Masri recalls the overwhelming relief of one Syrian refugee who arrived in Scotland a few weeks ago.\u201cHe was so grateful. He kept repeating \u2018Thank you Scotland! Thank you Nicola Sturgeon!\u2019 after every phrase I translated for him.\u201dMasri is himself a refugee, who fled the Assad regime in 2011 and now works as a research scientist in Edinburgh, where he lives with his wife and two young children.Over the past month, Masri and a group of other local Syrians have been visiting their newly arrived country-folk, helping where they can with the inevitable stresses and strangeness of negotiating a foreign land in the middle of winter. \u201cIt\u2019s to show them we are here, that this country gave us dignity and freedom, and that encourages them,\u201d explains Masri. Their initial anxieties have not been so banal as the weather, he adds. \u201cWe try to emphasise that the police in Scotland are here to help them, that they are not in danger from them. We\u2019ve also tried to explain that this is an equal country, whether between those with education or no education, and importantly that women have the same rights as men.\u201dOn 17 November, the first charter flight carrying families mainly from camps bordering Syria touched down at Glasgow airport during a relentless downpour. Since then, more than 300 men, women and children have been settled across the country by half of Scotland\u2019s 32 local authorities. In a reflection of the country\u2019s readiness in comparison to other parts of the UK, Scotland has welcomed one in three of the thousand refugees David Cameron agreed to take before the end of the year, although the Scottish government\u2019s proportionate commitment was to take 10% of the total number over five years.With the first plane-load landing days after the Paris attacks in November, concerns were raised that some people would conflate the refugees\u2019 arrival with the terrorist threat. There was a suspected arson attack on a mosque to the north of Glasgow and Police Scotland confirmed an immediate spike in hate crimes later that week. The day before the first arrivals, Humza Yousaf, the chair of the refugee taskforce which has coordinated the resettlement programme, and the Scottish government\u2019s only Muslim minister, confirmed that he had informed the police of the Islamophobic abuse he received on social media.But a month later, Yousaf praised the public\u2019s response to the refugee crisis, saying: \u201cI am deeply proud of the Scottish people who have extended the warmest possible hand of friendship to our newest neighbours.\u201dSpeaking before the final refugee taskforce meeting of the year, he added: \u201cI\u2019ve heard heartwarming tales \u2013 people walking up to refugees in the street and giving them hugs of welcome, offers of friendship, support and practical help, from arranging special community film screenings for refugees to giving them welcome gifts of food hampers, warm clothes and hot water bottles.\u201dMeanwhile, local communities have responded in their own, sometimes ambivalent, ways. As the Guardian reported, a Scottish Defence League protest in Ayrshire was countered by refugee rights activists, while in Renfrewshire a number of internet trolls posting bile about the resettlement plans were exposed by the Paisley Daily Express with a front page headline that read: \u201cShame on you.\u201d Local welcome campaigns have sprung up across the country, like Glasgow\u2019s Refuweegee project, which takes its name from the slang term for a Glaswegian \u2013 Weegee. It is the brainchild of Selina Hales, a city native who was prompted by news coverage of Syrians travelling across Europe seeking shelter. Its volunteers are putting together welcome packs, which include a handwritten letter from a local as well as Glasgow-appropriate items including obligatory umbrellas. \u201cI wanted to capture that real Glasgow welcome,\u201d says Hales. \u201cPeople don\u2019t just want to welcome people but to embrace them and make them feel like a local.\u201dScottish authorities are aware that those listed by the UNHCR for immediate resettlement include some of the most vulnerable and traumatised individuals, and have protected their privacy as they begin their new lives in Scotland. As Masri confirms: \u201cA lot of them have been through tragic and traumatic experiences, some were detained and tortured, and there is a big problem with post-traumatic stress. On top of that is the stress that moving to another continent and culture imposes, so their psychological situation is very sensitive.\u201dBut the Syrians he is in contact with have more workaday concerns, too. \u201cThere is the weather and the culture shock at the beginning, the short days in winter and the temperature. The pattern of daily life is different too, when the shops close and when life on the streets stops. In Syria we have cafes that are open late at night, but here there are only pubs and bars.\u201d The language barrier is an immediate problem, says Masri, particularly because many of the new arrivals come from rural parts of Syria where access to education is scant. \u201cHow can they learn a different language when they don\u2019t know how to read and write in Arabic? So we are trying to teach them in parallel Arabic and English.\u201dOn the Isle of Bute, where 12 Syrian families arrived in the seaside town of Rothesay in early December, the council has hired two dedicated translators to work with the new arrivals. Related: 'People want to help': Scottish town prepares to host Syrian refugees Locals hope the setting will suit their new guests. As Clellan Sneddon, executive director of community services for Argyll and Bute council, explains: \u201cWe have got people who are from smaller towns or rural backgrounds and therefore we think the transition, the match, is a little better.\u201dVolunteers on Bute are quick to point out that their refugees don\u2019t actually know one another. A pop-up community centre, based in a church hall and staffed by locals, has proved essential, allowing women with small babies to support each other as well as providing a focus for visits from education and social workers.The centre has also allowed the refugees access to donated clothing in a more dignified environment: the items are displayed on rails so that the Syrians can choose themselves as though in a shop, with private changing areas for men and women. There is an ongoing difficulty that, while huge amounts of clothing have been collected, the one thing that people don\u2019t donate secondhand is underwear, especially thermals. There is no mosque on Bute so the possibility of a city imam travelling along the coast to conduct Friday prayers was discussed, while local supermarkets made inquiries about stocking halal meat. Concerns about lack of pulses in the Co-op were solved when Yotam Ottolenghi got in touch, offering to send chickpeas, spices and juices. A large donation of halal products was made soon after the refugees arrived and now the community centre hosts prayers every Friday from 11am to 1pm.Over Christmas, volunteers will continue to staff the centre. Most recently there was a call for multiple car seats to transport the younger family members to a showing of the local Christmas pantomime, Puss In Boots. The children found the concept of a dame hilarious.As Masri observes: \u201cIt\u2019s the children who adapt the quickest. They are like sponges.\u201d", "tags": ["Refugees", "World news", "Scotland", "UK news", "Immigration and asylum", "Migration"], "title": "Syrian refugees in Scotland: cold weather but warm welcome"},{"date": "2015-12-16T18:55:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland\u2019s finance secretary raided council spending and imposed a new tax on second homes, as he boosted funding for the crisis-hit NHS in his final budget before next year\u2019s Scottish election.Taking his cue from George Osborne\u2019s budget, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney slashed spending for councils by 3.5% and said most second homes would have a 3% surcharge on their purchase price, on top of the normal property tax, raising up to \u00a329m next year.In a sign he has been stung by repeated attacks by opponents and economists for allowing health spending to lag and by growing evidence of NHS funding shortfalls, Swinney announced a \u00a3500m increase in NHS budgets. That would increase overall health spending to \u00a313bn.\u201cThe nature and scale of the challenges facing our NHS \u2013 in particular the challenge of an ageing population \u2013 mean that additional money alone will not equip it properly for the future,\u201d he said. \u201cTo be blunt, if all we do is fund our NHS to deliver more of the same, it will not cope with the pressures it faces.\u201dThe cuts to councils were alleviated by a transfer of \u00a3250m from NHS spending to increase social care services by local authorities, but furious council leaders accused Swinney of decimating their workforce. Excluding that \u00a3250m switch in social care funding, council budgets are being cut by more than 7% in real terms across other areas of spending, forcing up fees for services. Related: Scottish government to freeze income tax rates in pre-election budget Glasgow, with the country\u2019s poorest residents and already preparing to axe 3,000 jobs to save \u00a3103m, will lose a further \u00a344m. David O\u2019Neill, the leader of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, said the job losses from a \u00a3350m cut in overall funding which would follow equalled 50 times the job losses from Tata\u2019s steelworks at Motherwell and Cambuslang. \u201cA cut of 3.5% is catastrophic for jobs and services within Scottish local government \u2013 because the harsh reality is that it actually translates to real job cuts that hit real families, in real communities throughout Scotland. Everyone will be hurt by this.\u201dAs expected, Swinney froze Scotland\u2019s council tax rates for the ninth year running and held income taxes at their current rates despite having new powers to raise or lower income tax from April 2016. Inviting Tory accusations of timidity for failing to use his new powers to fund public services after he complained about a 0.7% cut in his Treasury grant, Swinney said the current income tax reforms were too crude.They only allowed the Scottish government to raise or lower tax rates by exactly the same amount, he said, and that would disproportionately help the richest. \u201cSo the simple fact is, this tax power does not enable me to target help to those on the lowest incomes,\u201d Swinney said. \u201cI do however have the power to ensure that this tax does not inflict an additional burden on those on low incomes.\u201dIn the most far-reaching reforms yet to Holyrood\u2019s tax powers, it will be able to set different income tax rates and bands from April 2017. Swinney said he would set out his plans for those new Scotland-only rates before the Holyrood elections next May. Swinney repeatedly cut other budgets to fund the health spending, a modest increase in frontline police spending and a 1% real terms increase in social housing spending. Rail spending was cut by \u00a357m or 7% to \u00a3751m but capital spending on trunk roads and motorways went up by \u00a3126m overall. The arts saw some of the heaviest losses: prominent national companies such as Scottish Ballet, the National Theatre of Scotland and Scottish Opera, had their funds cut by 17%, losing \u00a34.7m. Creative Scotland, the arts funding agency, had its budget cut by \u00a35m or 7%.There was a \u00a315m or 2.6% real terms cut in environment spending, hitting Scottish Natural Heritage, Marine Scotland, the Forestry Commission, the Scottish Environment Protection Agency and Zero Waste. Overall spending for justice and courts was cut by nearly \u00a3100m, or 3.6%. The Scottish Prison Service lost \u00a345m or 11%.  Related: Scottish councils hold record debts of \u00a314.8bn \u2013 and are still borrowing He was ridiculed after giving opposition parties and the media an advance copy of his speech which was heavily censored: 103 lines of text dealing with the council and income tax freeze were redacted by black lines. His only unexpected tax announcement was a \u00a3130m rise in business rates for large firms and supermarkets. Swinney said last year\u2019s budget statement had also been redacted in advance to withhold his new property tax rates until he disclosed those in the chamber.Jackie Baillie, Scottish Labour\u2019s finance spokeswoman, said Swinney\u2019s statement concealed a series of heavy cuts. \u201cThis is the most important budget since devolution, delivered by a party who promised to stand up for Scotland against Tory austerity. But it doesn\u2019t deliver fairer taxes, a long term plan for Scotland or an anti-austerity alternative. Local services like our schools, roads and care of the elderly will face massive cuts,\u201d she said.Murdo Fraser, the Scottish Tory finance spokesman, said he welcomed the income tax freeze but said the new tax power prevented Swinney from repeatedly blaming the Treasury for his budget decisions. \u201cIt cannot be forgotten that John Swinney had the choice in the matter, and he chose not to increase the resource available to him by levying additional taxes,\u201d he said.\u201cFor years, the finance secretary has portrayed himself as a prisoner of Westminster austerity, but now that he has been given the key to the door of his cell, he has decided not to use it.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland budget: NHS spending boosted as council funds slashed"},{"date": "2015-12-15T23:16:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police in London have issued photographs and appealed for assistance from the public to trace three schoolgirls who have been reported missing.They were named as Fardowsa Hassan, 13, and two sisters, Abir Salah, 16, and Ahlam Salah, 15. All are from the Wood Green area of north London and are believed to be together.The Metropolitan police said that the teenagers were not thought to have left the country but may be sleeping on buses or elsewhere on the transport network.Fardowsa and Abir were reported missing on 6 December while Ahlam was reported missing on 12 December.A statement issued by Scotland Yard described Fardowsa as being of Arabic appearance, 5ft 5in tall and of medium build.It said that Abir is black, of Somali descent, 5ft 10in tall and of medium build. Ahlam is black, of Somali descent, 5ft 5in tall and of medium build.\u201cAll the girls\u2019 families are concerned for their welfare and urge them to contact them, or the police, to let them know they are safe and well,\u201d it added.Anyone with information is asked to contact Haringey missing persons unit on 101.", "tags": ["UK news", "Police"], "title": "Scotland Yard appeal for help finding three missing schoolgirls"},{"date": "2015-10-06T10:00:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Why go now?To witness Scotland\u2019s biggest Gaelic cultural festival, the Royal National M\u00f2d, a celebration of music, highland dancing, drama, sport and literature (9-17 October, ancomunn.co.uk). Related: I would drive 500 miles: Scotland\u2019s new North Coast 500 route What else is there to do?Dine on spanking fresh fish \u2013 Oban is known as the seafood capital of Scotland \u2013 and sample a dram at one of the country\u2019s oldest distilleries. Visit both McCaig\u2019s Tower, a 19th-century monument with views across the bay, and the ruins of Dunollie Castle on the edge of town. Walk along the new path from Ganavan beach to the fascinating Ocean Explorer Centre (free). Support Oban Phoenix, the town\u2019s recently rescued, community-owned cinema.How about further afield?Oban is the gateway to the western isles and the place to start an island-hopping holiday. There are year-round ferries to 25 inhabited islands, including Mull, Iona and Islay.Anywhere for dinner?Try fresh seafood from the stalls on the ferry pier by the harbour, or the specials at the Oban Fish & Chip Shop, such as local monkfish scampi. The renovated Waterfront Fishouse has seabass ravioli and scallops from Mull, while Ee-usk has fantastic seafood platters. Despite the name, Coast has more meaty options, including Argyll venison and East Lothian partridge. Related: All aboard Scotland\u2019s new Borders Railway How about a pint?Cuan Mor is a stylish restaurant-bar decked out with local materials, such as reclaimed timber from Oban\u2019s lighthouse pier. It brews its own beer and stocks 100 whiskies. Aulay\u2019s Bar is a more traditional pub with darts, dominoes and real ale.Anywhere to stay for under \u00a3100?The Ranald opened in 2012, the first newly built hotel in Oban for decades. The 17 rooms are small but nicely designed in a modern Scottish style (doubles from \u00a365). Aspen Lodge, a couple of miles away, is a modern B&B. Rooms have verandas with views over the glen (\u00a385).", "tags": ["Scotland holidays", "Festivals", "United Kingdom holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Seafood", "Food & drink"], "title": "Let\u2019s go to \u2026 Oban, Scotland"},{"date": "2015-12-13T18:42:13Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Parts of Scotland are likely to see as much as 10cm of snow on Sunday night and into Monday, while forecasters are warning people in Northern Ireland to expect heavy rain.The Met Office said the snow was expected to settle on higher ground in the south of Scotland, while lower-lying areas were likely to see less. Overnight on Saturday, temperatures dipped well below freezing in Scotland.\u201cAccumulations of 2\u20135cm are expected above 150m, with perhaps around 10cm on ground above 300\u2013400m. On low ground, 1 or 2 cm could accumulate locally. The snow will become lighter and increasingly confined to higher hills during Monday,\u201d it said.It also said that icy patches were likely, caused by rain falling on to sub-zero surfaces on Sunday evening.Forecasters warned people living in Grampian, the Highlands and the Outer Hebrides, Strathclyde and the Central, Tayside and Fife areas to be aware of possible localised travel disruption, with some snow likely to lie on roads.They issued yellow \u201cbe aware\u201d warnings, the second least severe. They come after Storm Desmond caused widespread flooding in north-west England.The Met Office said that rain moving northwards into Scotland on Sunday evening was \u201clikely to be preceded by a short spell of snow over higher ground in parts of southern Scotland before producing a longer, more prolonged spell of snow over regions north of the northern Central Belt\u201d.The Met Office said it was caused by warm front moving northwards and meeting colder air over Scotland, which would turn rain to a \u201crelatively prolonged spell of snow\u201d.", "tags": ["Weather", "UK news", "Scotland", "Storm Desmond"], "title": "Snowfall expected in parts of Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-19T18:50:52Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "I agree with Kevan Jones MP (Letters, 19\u00a0October) that Labour\u2019s policy on Trident should be grounded in fact. So\u00a0I\u00a0would like to correct his letter: there was no vote on Trident at this year\u2019s conference. Instead, delegates explicitly decided not to discuss nuclear weapons. So the position remains as agreed by the 2014 conference, which laid the foundations of the manifesto. This stated \u201cLabour has said [past tense] that we are committed to a minimum, credible independent nuclear deterrent, delivered through a continuous at-sea deterrent. It would require a clear body of evidence for us to change this belief [ie the belief could be changed] \u2026 the process and debate leading up to the next strategic defence and security review in 2015 needs to be open, inclusive and transparent, examining all capabilities, including nuclear. It\u00a0must also examine cost implications as well as strategic necessities \u2026 To this end [Labour] will have a continuing consultation, inviting submissions from all relevant stakeholders.\u201d So official party policy is to open a debate, not to pre-empt its conclusions.Ann BlackMember, Labour party national executive committee\u2022 Your editorial (19 October) does not mention other parties that still exist in Scotland. Surely an imaginative Labour party would go into next year\u2019s Scottish election promising a referendum within the lifetime of that parliament. Instead of the issue hanging on until the SNP thinks it can win, why not a positive policy for a second referendum where a no vote really would settle the issue \u201cfor a generation\u201d. High risk, yes, but all parties agree that union has to exist on a democratic basis (hence referendums); the politics is about the tactics of timing. Only the SNP seems to be playing this politics.Peter TaylorTynemouthJoin the debate at guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Trident", "Labour", "Defence policy", "Military", "Scottish politics", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Nuclear weapons", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Labour\u2019s options on Trident and Scotland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-10-19T15:22:11Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "As Andrew Sparrow reported on Friday, the SNP leadership suffered its only defeat of conference over land reform. After a vigorous debate, delegates voted to remit a resolution commending the Scottish government\u2019s land reform bill back by 570 votes to 440.While this may have been missed amidst all the second referendum analysis, as campaigner Andy Wightman points out, this marked a moment of some consequence when the grassroots members of the SNP took on the party hierarchy and held them to their much-vaunted commitment to significant legislative change.And in her Scotsman column this morning, fellow reformer Lesley Riddoch argues further:Of course, there\u2019s no doubting the massive popularity of the SNP leader and the Still Yes enthusiasm of her audience. But SNP delegates increasingly understand there\u2019s more to politics than the timing of the next referendum and more to being politically active than blindly toeing the party line. That\u2019s why the land reform upset was hugely important. It marked the appearance of a new force in Scottish politics \u2013 the grassroots of the SNP...So what happens now? Nicky Lowden MacCrimmon, who spoke powerfully against the resolution on Friday, has a notion or three. Speaking to the Guardian on Monday, he first welcomes the fact that Aileen McLeod, who proposed the defeated motion and is the first Scottish government minister to have land reform explicitly included in her portfolio, has promised to listen to delegates\u2019 concerns.MacCrimmon, from Carse of Gowrie, an area of arable farmland between Perth and Dundee, goes back to the proposals of the Land Reform Review Group, which I reported on back in May last year. \u201cEven older, conservative with a small \u2018c\u2019 branch members felt that the proposals had been watered down in the bill\u201d, he explains, adding that his branch members have seen for themselves difficulties faced by local tenant farmers.The review group recommended that the bill have provision that a holding company needed to originate in the EU to hold land in Scotland. The Scottish government\u2019s line is that they left that out because the EU isn\u2019t very good at identifying who is behind companies, but you shouldn\u2019t not do something just because it\u2019s difficult.\u201dAs Jen Stout of the campaigning group Scottish Land Action writes for Bella Caledonia on the same omission from the bill:The fact that 750,000 acres of Scotland will still be held in tax havens by a global, untraceable elite, is inexcusable. The removal from the bill of a measure which would have tackled this is partly what\u2019s caused such anger among SNP members and land activists, as now even the UK government have stronger proposals for this problem.MacCrimmon also wants to see security of tenure for tenant famers and a cap on land ownerships, again recommendations of the land reform review group which didn\u2019t make it into the bill.  And Lesley Riddoch, part of the campaign group Our Land, argues:If the present bill can\u2019t be amended to become more effective in making land more affordable and available in our lifetimes, then SNP manifesto writers need to commit to a new land reform bill in the next parliament. Riddoch adds that the Scottish governments needs to start talking directly to tenant farmers who are currently being evicted without compensation. Meanwhile, MacCrimmon proposes the formation of a campaign group within the party to keep the pressure on:Land reform is not just about one piece of legislation. It needs to be a generational shift. I know that in some quarters this has been characterised as a rebellion, but we\u2019re not doing this to give the SNP a kicking. We\u2019re exercising the democratic process that exists within the SNP. I think we\u2019re an empowered party at the grassroots.", "tags": ["Scotland", "Land rights", "Scottish National party (SNP)", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "What next for land reform in Scotland?"},{"date": "2015-10-16T14:50:15Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Social enterprise has a long and proud history in Scotland but the results of the country\u2019s first comprehensive sector census (pdf) show that it is thriving today as never before. We asked Gerry Higgins, the CEO of Glasgow-based CEIS and a founder of the Social Enterprise World Forum, to draw on his 30 years of experience in explaining some of the most striking findings. What has the census told you about social enterprise in your country?  Related: What is the critical mass needed for a social enterprise to make a difference? It has provided a wealth of evidence about the scale, characteristics, contribution and aspirations of the social enterprise community. It has also reaffirmed the growing significance of social enterprise to our communities.Social enterprises have been shown to be active in almost every part of the economy, from the creative industries to sustainable tourism. Despite the historical roots of social enterprise, many of those active today have only emerged over the last decade and the pace of new enterprise formation appears to be accelerating each year.As Jonathan Coburn of Social Value Lab has noted, \u201cthe overall scale of the social enterprise sector has come as a surprise to many; in terms of the number of social enterprises operating, their employment and economic contribution. The figures suggest a much larger sector than previously thought and one that appears to be growing fast.\u201dA large part of the social enterprise community in Scotland has grown under the radar over many years. It comprises small and micro enterprises strongly rooted in a single place \u2013 villages, towns or neighbourhoods \u2013 that manage important amenities and services such as community buildings, childcare and so on. \"Social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing.\"22% of Scottish social enterprises are based in the highlands and islands, which are home to only 9% of the population. What accounts for this? In these areas social enterprise has become the natural way of doing business and the cornerstone of community life and wellbeing. It is critical to the region. This also reflects 50 years of support from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), an agency that recognised the significance of social enterprise as a sustainable economic model long before others. HIE understands that in communities with challenges of remoteness and distance from markets, the social and community enterprise sector has intrinsic importance. In these communities, the connections between businesses and communities are so close and there is an innate sense of people \u201cdoing things for themselves\u201d which drives a vibrant social economy.The social enterprise business model is an active choice for many of the region\u2019s most innovative entrepreneurs and receives direct support, tailored products and services, account management and capital investment from HIE. The agency also provides support so that the leadership, innovation and the business dimensions of the sector can be strengthened.60% of social enterprises are led by women and more than 70% report that more than half their employees are female. Why are they so much more inclusive than traditional businesses? Related: Top tips from Thailand on starting a successful social enterprise Gender equality is a longstanding problem in the commercial sector. For instance, only 9% of executive directorships in FTSE100 companies are held by women (pdf). In Scotland and elsewhere however, social enterprise appears not to have a glass ceiling preventing female professionals to progress to leadership levels. Or as the Social Enterprise UK 2013 sector survey noted, \u201csocial enterprise is the natural home of the female entrepreneur.\u201dThe high participation rate of women in the sector may be partially due to the fact that social enterprises tend not to match commercial sector pay levels but often offer a greater range of secondary benefits. Flexible working is commonplace and many have family friendly working conditions which is a critical factor for many female employees. Whether gender equality leads to democratic workplaces or vice versa, the traditions and values of social enterprise result in more participative and less hierarchical workplaces than in the commercial sector. These workplaces are based on equality, openness and fairness and this leads to better productivity and lower turnover as employees are engaged and motivated.How and why has the Scottish government supported the sector?The Scottish government has supported social enterprise over the last decade, with political leadership from the current deputy first minister and cabinet secretary for finance and the economy, John Swinney. It has worked with the sector to develop an ecosystem for social enterprise, investing in business support, social investment, entrepreneurship development, leadership and education, opening markets and internationalisation. There are a range of reasons for this support. The census points to a sector that has shown resilience in the face of economic recession and with employment now returning to pre-recession levels, jobs created in social enterprises are more likely to have balance in terms of equality, gender and pay.  Related: Are Anglo-American social enterprise models stunting the social economy\u2019s growth? Less cohesive economies don\u2019t do as well because parts of society aren\u2019t benefiting. Therefore one of the key roles of social enterprise is to provide pathways to employment for a wide range of people, especially those who need support. The economy is expected to grow in the next decade but if the gap between rich and poor widens in this period, the national economic strategy will have failed. Social enterprise bridges economic and social pillars and has a unique opportunity to assist the national economy to create opportunities where conventional businesses will not. After a decade of sector and government collaboration, work is now underway to co-produce a social enterprise strategy to reflect the potential and contribution of the sector through to 2025.What do you hope the census will achieve? Having this wealth of evidence at our disposal, the next stage is to continue to build a collective response, within government and across those organisations that represent and support the sector. It enables us to set priorities and make informed choices about where we must invest to grow the sector. It also enables us to tell a convincing story about the sector and its potential, which is essential if we are to broaden the sources of support and finance available.Download Social Enterprise in Scotland: Census 2015 here.Content on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council, sponsor of the international social enterprise hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Social enterprise takes centre stage in Scotland"},{"date": "2015-10-01T14:18:06Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "\n\n3.18pm BST\n15:18\n\nThat\u2019s all from me for today.I\u2019ll be back on Sunday, blogging from the Conservative conference and starting with David Cameron\u2019s interview on the Andrew Marr Show.Thanks for the comments.\n\n3.00pm BST\n15:00\n\nThe Eurosceptic split between Leave.EU (the Ukip-associated out campaign) and the For Britain group (which is more Conservative/business orientated) - see 11.38am - is now getting more ugly.Earlier Nigel Farage \u201cwelcomed\u201d the fact that Lord Lawson was taking over as president of Conservatives for Britain, but said Lawson and his group were too Westminster-focused.Now Leave.EU, which Farage supports, has criticised Lawson strongly. As Sebastian Payne reports at Coffee House, Leave.EU has issued a statement denouncing Lawson as a \u201chas been\u201d who should \u201cshut up\u201d. Here it is in full.The announcement that Lord Lawson is \u2018leading\u2019 the campaign to leave the EU is wrong. He\u2019s leading \u2018a\u2019 campaign that is run by the \u2018Westminster bubble\u2019 from SW1. When are these politicians going to learn that this campaign cannot we won from SW1. It has to appeal to the people, not the small clique of Eurosceptic Tories.It would be better if the Eurosceptic Tories just \u2018shut-up\u2019 as they are going to alienate the vast majority of people who will look at this campaign as a Tory stich-up.The Leave.EU campaign is about the people of Great Britain which includes Labour, Lib Dem UKIP Tories and anyone else who believes we should vote to leave the EU at the next referendum. If the Tories keep using has beens like Lord Lawson and the other Eurosceptic rabble then that will turn off supporters. So get back in your box Nigel and let the people support a peoples campaign not an SW1 bubble brigade.\u2019All of which proves that Farage was absolutely right last week when he told the Ukip conference that the problem with Eurosceptic groups is that that were hopelessly divided. As a reminder, this is what he said:One of the problems with the Eurosceptic movement in this country is it has been, for all the 25 years that I have been involved with it, it has very often been fractured, it has very often been divided, it has very often been a valid, pertinent and correct criticism to say that the Eurosceptic groups are all run by egomaniacs - with some exceptions, one hopes - that they can never work with each other, that they all hate each other, that they are more concerned with who is top dog on our side of the argument than fighting the enemy.\n\n2.31pm BST\n14:31\n\nSeverin CarrellJeremy Corbyn has told the Guardian that he would offer Scottish Labour \u201chard work and dour activities\u201d in its fight to close a widening gap with the Scottish National party.In Edinburgh on his first visit since winning the Labour leadership contest, he denied he brought unique properties to the job of rescuing the battered party from a record low in Scottish opinion polls. He said: \u201cOh, there\u2019s no magic solutions. There\u2019s hard work and dour activities and that\u2019s what I\u2019m going to be doing.\u201dCorbyn appeared to be wearying of the relentless media attention. Surrounded by a hoard of photographers and camera crews as he walked from the Scottish parliament to a private meeting with many of Scottish Labour\u2019s 37 MSPs in Edinburgh, Corbyn came close to sarcasm.Asked by the Guardian what he planned to say at his first ever meeting with the Scottish parliamentary group - in the appositely named Serenity cafe, he replied: \u201cWe\u2019re going to have a very interesting and very thoughtful and very intelligent and very well informed discussion and then we\u2019ll let you know.\u201dPressed for a few specific topics, he answered: \u201cLots of things; I imagine we\u2019ll be talking about poverty; we will be talking about austerity; we will be talking about the enormous growth of Labour party membership all over Britain, including Scotland.\u201dAs he posed for the photographers who asked him to fake a wave over their heads rather than towards a cluster of school children outside the Dynamic Earth geological sciences centre, he responded: \u201cOh, waving to the children ... the children are over there guys.\u201dSeveral bystanders were welcoming. He encountered one couple en route to the MSPs meeting, who said \u201cGlad you could visit Jeremy\u201d and \u201cWell done!\u201d. And outside a nearby cafe, a man cradling his baby daughter in the sunshine shouted out to him: \u201cThanks for bringing humanity back to politics. Well done sir.\u201dAfter a brief exchange of pleasantries with Corbyn, the dad told reporters: \u201cI think he\u2019s a true gent and he\u2019s what politics needs.\u201dTV crews sneak footage of @jeremycorbyn addressing @scottishlabour MSPs at the appositely named #Serenity cafe pic.twitter.com/lUAUcUma98\n\n2.05pm BST\n14:05\n\nIn this week\u2019s Spectator James Forsyth has a good article explaining how Boris Johnson\u2019s hopes of becoming the next Conservative leader have faded since the general election. According to Forsyth, Johnson was planning to pounce if the Tories did not do well.Five months ago, allies of Boris Johnson were ready to launch his bid to become leader of the Conservative party. The election was imminent and even David Cameron was fretting that the Tories were going to lose. A sympathetic pollster had prepared the numbers that made the post-defeat case for Boris: he extended the Tories\u2019 reach, and a party that had failed to gain a majority for 23 years desperately needed a greater reach. There was a policy agenda ready to magnify this appeal, too: compassionate conservatism, based around adopting the Living Wage. Boris had kept a plausible distance from these preparations. But one of those charged by No. 10 with sniffing out plots against the prime minister says of the Boris operation, \u2018Everything was geared to make it happen. Anything short of just shy of a majority, and it would have been in play.\u2019But the result turned out differently, and now George Osborne is seen as the favourite to succeed David Cameron. Not all is lost for Johnson, though. Today Ipsos MORI has released a poll showing that, amongst the public at large, Johnson is more popular than the chancellor. People say having Johnson as leader would be more likely to make them want to vote Conservative. But Osborne is more popular with Conservative supporters (who presumably include members, who will have the final say when they vote for the next leader).One in four (27%) say the London Mayor would be the candidate to make them most likely to vote Conservative at the next election. Falling behind Boris Johnson is Theresa May with 17%, George Osborne with 15%, Sajid Javid with 4% and Michael Gove with 3% (although 42% of Labour supporters, 28% of Liberal Democrats and 16% of UKIP supporters said \u2018none of them\u2019 would likely make them vote Conservative). Conservative supporters are though more likely to support George Osborne over Boris Johnson with one in three (32%) opting for the Chancellor versus three in ten (29%) choosing the London Mayor. Eighteen percent of Conservatives back Theresa May, 4% Michael Gove and 3% Sajid Javid.\n\n1.45pm BST\n13:45\n\nJeremy Corbyn told journalists that Labour was \u201cdoing great\u201d as he arrived at the Scottish parliament. According to the Press Association, he said:We\u2019re doing great, party membership is going up after my first conference as leader and things are going really well.He also said that he was looking forward to a \u201cgood chat\u201d with Kezia Dugdale and that they would be discussing how they campaign ahead of the Scottish elections next year.\n\n1.08pm BST\n13:08\n\nJeremy Corbyn has arrived at Holyrood for his meeting with Labour MSPs..@jeremycorbyn gets a #Holyrood welcome: arrives to wall of cameras as he bids to help save @scottishlabour pic.twitter.com/MdfT0d8D4K.@jeremycorbyn has arrived in Scotland to meet with @kdugdalemsp and members of the labour movement. pic.twitter.com/aSfodRlrcM\n\n12.27pm BST\n12:27\n\nBuzzFeed\u2019s Jamie Ross is covering Jeremy Corbyn in Scotland.Notable there aren't any angry men with saltires here to welcome Corbyn. Miliband was trapped in a shopping centre last time he visited.\n\n12.17pm BST\n12:17\n\nSky News\u2019s Faisal Islam has been tweeting about Jeremy Corbyn and Scotland.In Edi @jeremycorbyn tries to win back Scotland for Labour. Yday he told me: issues here are \"poverty, inequality, loss of college places...Corbyn re Scotland \"..issues are need for investment, welfare bill and whether or not Scottish govt uses tax revenue raising powers or not..In ydays interview, Corbyn said \"scottish people have a right to make their own decision... There may or may not be another referendum...\"Corbyn also pointed out in yesterday's interview that the SNP \"have a bit of a problem\" with their finance spokesperson\n\n11.38am BST\n11:38\n\nAs I said earlier, Lord Lawson\u2019s appointment as president of Conservatives for Britain is the latest development in a struggle between Leave.EU and the For Britain coalition for the right to be the lead out campaign in the EU referendum. (See 10.30am.) Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, has now hit back, suggesting the For Britain camp are too Westminster-focused. In a statement he said:Whilst I welcome Lord Lawson in his new role as head of Conservatives for Britain which will apparently be be campaigning for Britain to leave the EU, there are a few issues we must make clear.Whilst winning support from Westminster figures is important, this referendum cannot be won in Westminster but out across the country. That is why I have been so impressed by the Leave.EU campaign which is signing up thousands of supporters every week and why I and other Ukip MEPs have been going across the country holding public meetings on the Say No to EU national tour, speaking to thousands of voters.Lord Lawson calls for all to support his campaign [see 10.30am] but the fact that it is called Conservatives for Britain and that he is so intimately associated with the Thatcher years is bound to limit appeal to Conservative voters. The Leave campaign must reach across the spectrum to everyone.As I have always said, Ukip will work with anyone who wants to help get the UK out of the EU. My party cannot win this referendum on our own. But it cannot be won without us either.Updated\nat 2.43pm BST\n\n\n11.14am BST\n11:14\n\nIn the New Statesman Suzanne Hall has written up the findings of two focus groups conducted in Croydon Central to find out how voters reacted to Jeremy Corbyn\u2019s conference speech.The findings were mixed. Participants warmed to Corbyn personally.A common refrain from participants was how Corbyn appeared to be \u201cgenuine\u201d and someone that they could relate to. This was evident from both his image \u2013 participants noted his appearance was certainly less slick than his predecessors \u2013 but also his background. This experience lent him a credibility that they felt had been lacking from Westminster for some time.But they were not so positive about some of what he had to say.At least Miliband intended to talk about the deficit at the 2014 conference. This time, participants sensed the omission was because Corbyn only wanted to talk the things that mattered to him \u2013 not them. For example, his talk of human rights and a social Europe seemed unrelated to the issues they felt were facing the country. \u201cThe first thing he wants to talk about is a 17 year old boy in Saudi Arabia \u2013 I don\u2019t know who he is! I have never heard of him. Why is this important to me?\u201d\u201cA social Europe? What is that? Is that the EU? A lot of this went over my head. If they want people to vote, then they need to make it clear what they are talking about.\u201d Rather, they wanted to hear about things like the economy and immigration \u2013 and not in the context of the refugee crisis. The full article is here.\n\n10.30am BST\n10:30\n\nLord Lawson, the former chancellor who is becoming president of Conservatives for Britain, told the Today programme this morning that he would not share a platform with Leave.EU, the out campaign set up by the Ukip donor Arron Banks and unveiled at the Ukip conference last week. Asked if he would share a platform with them, Lawson replied:No, we welcome others to come and support us. We are not going to support anybody else but we are open to all sorts of others from all parties and none to come and rally to the Conservatives for Britain group.Conservatives for Britain are linked to Business for Britain and Labour for Britain, and they are shortly expected to unite and form a cross-party For Britain campaign. For Britain and Leave.eu are both competing to be designated as the lead out campaign by the Electoral Commission. The lead campaign gets public funding and free mailing, as well as taking charge of the campaign broadcasts.Lawson also said that he was not anti-European.The point is I am not anti-European \u2013 I am speaking to you from my home in France \u2013 the problem is not Europe, the problem is the European Union and the European Union is way past its sell-by date.And he explained why he believed David Cameron could not achieve significant EU reform.The European Union first of all cannot be changed either in its own structure or in the relationship between the union as such and the member states. Treaty change can only be agreed unanimously \u2013 you can\u2019t have treaty change unless there is unanimous agreement. And all the evidence is \u2013 and I have been around a long time, I don\u2019t make this judgement lightly \u2013 but all the evidence is that that unanimity is not going to be forthcoming. Indeed we will only have a few friends who will support the sort of changes we wish to see.Updated\nat 12.00pm BST\n\n\n9.49am BST\n09:49\n\nAs my colleague Matthew Weaver reports, the SNP has responded to the news that Jeremy Corbyn is visiting Scotland by challenging him \u2018to clarify his position on Trident after his admission that he would never use nuclear weapons was openly criticised by members of his shadow cabinet\u201d.The SNP intervention has come in the form of a statement from Stewart Hosie, the SNP deputy leader. He claims Labour divisions on Trident and austerity \u201cwill allow the Tories to steam roller through their cuts to social security and the spending of \u00a3100bn of nuclear weapons\u201d. That\u2019s a questionable claim, on two counts. First, although Labour is clearly split over Trident, the divisions over austerity are much more nuanced and the party in parliament is very likely to unite behind Jeremy Corbyn in opposing the welfare bill. Second, even if every Labour MP lined up with the SNP to vote against Trident, Trident renewal would almost certainly still get passed because of the Conservative majority.\n\n9.25am BST\n09:25\n\nAfter a hectic five days in Brighton Jeremy Corbyn might feel he deserves a break, but instead the Labour head is heading for Scotland where he is due to hold meetings with MSPs, union leaders, council leaders and activists. Speaking in advance, he said he wanted to make it clear that Kezia Dugdale, the Scottish Labour leader, was in charge of Scottish Labour. A previous leader in Scotland, Johann Lamont, complained about London treating the Scottish party like a \u201cbranch office\u201d. Corbyn said:Under my leadership there will be no question about who is in charge of the Scottish Labour party. Kezia Dugdale is leader of our party in Scotland and I will be working alongside her to win back support for Labour.Corbyn also said in advance of his visit that the SNP was backward-looking.The stakes are high for Scotland. People can\u2019t afford a Tory Government whose policies are making people work harder for less or an SNP Government that is intent on having the arguments of the past rather than looking to the future. It\u2019s time for a Labour Government that would put our young people first and make sure that we are narrowing the gap between the richest and the rest.Other than Corbyn\u2019s visit to Scotland today, it looks relatively quiet, although I will post any reaction to the news that Lord Lawson, the former chancellor, will lead the Conservative campaign to leave the EU.If you want to follow me or get in touch on Twitter, I\u2019m on @AndrewSparrow.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "Labour", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Jeremy Corbyn", "Kezia Dugdale"], "title": "Jeremy Corbyn visits Scotland - Politics live"},{"date": "2015-12-21T12:13:33Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Amer Masri recalls the overwhelming relief of one Syrian refugee who arrived in Scotland a few weeks ago.\u201cHe was so grateful. He kept repeating \u2018Thank you Scotland! Thank you Nicola Sturgeon!\u2019 after every phrase I translated for him.\u201dMasri is himself a refugee, who fled the Assad regime in 2011 and now works as a research scientist in Edinburgh, where he lives with his wife and two young children.Over the past month, Masri and a group of other local Syrians have been visiting their newly arrived country-folk, helping where they can with the inevitable stresses and strangeness of negotiating a foreign land in the middle of winter. \u201cIt\u2019s to show them we are here, that this country gave us dignity and freedom, and that encourages them,\u201d explains Masri. Their initial anxieties have not been so banal as the weather, he adds. \u201cWe try to emphasise that the police in Scotland are here to help them, that they are not in danger from them. We\u2019ve also tried to explain that this is an equal country, whether between those with education or no education, and importantly that women have the same rights as men.\u201dOn 17 November, the first charter flight carrying families mainly from camps bordering Syria touched down at Glasgow airport during a relentless downpour. Since then, more than 300 men, women and children have been settled across the country by half of Scotland\u2019s 32 local authorities. In a reflection of the country\u2019s readiness in comparison to other parts of the UK, Scotland has welcomed one in three of the thousand refugees David Cameron agreed to take before the end of the year, although the Scottish government\u2019s proportionate commitment was to take 10% of the total number over five years.With the first plane-load landing days after the Paris attacks in November, concerns were raised that some people would conflate the refugees\u2019 arrival with the terrorist threat. There was a suspected arson attack on a mosque to the north of Glasgow and Police Scotland confirmed an immediate spike in hate crimes later that week. The day before the first arrivals, Humza Yousaf, the chair of the refugee taskforce which has coordinated the resettlement programme, and the Scottish government\u2019s only Muslim minister, confirmed that he had informed the police of the Islamophobic abuse he received on social media.But a month later, Yousaf praised the public\u2019s response to the refugee crisis, saying: \u201cI am deeply proud of the Scottish people who have extended the warmest possible hand of friendship to our newest neighbours.\u201dSpeaking before the final refugee taskforce meeting of the year, he added: \u201cI\u2019ve heard heartwarming tales \u2013 people walking up to refugees in the street and giving them hugs of welcome, offers of friendship, support and practical help, from arranging special community film screenings for refugees to giving them welcome gifts of food hampers, warm clothes and hot water bottles.\u201dMeanwhile, local communities have responded in their own, sometimes ambivalent, ways. As the Guardian reported, a Scottish Defence League protest in Ayrshire was countered by refugee rights activists, while in Renfrewshire a number of internet trolls posting bile about the resettlement plans were exposed by the Paisley Daily Express with a front page headline that read: \u201cShame on you.\u201d Local welcome campaigns have sprung up across the country, like Glasgow\u2019s Refuweegee project, which takes its name from the slang term for a Glaswegian \u2013 Weegee. It is the brainchild of Selina Hales, a city native who was prompted by news coverage of Syrians travelling across Europe seeking shelter. Its volunteers are putting together welcome packs, which include a handwritten letter from a local as well as Glasgow-appropriate items including obligatory umbrellas. \u201cI wanted to capture that real Glasgow welcome,\u201d says Hales. \u201cPeople don\u2019t just want to welcome people but to embrace them and make them feel like a local.\u201dScottish authorities are aware that those listed by the UNHCR for immediate resettlement include some of the most vulnerable and traumatised individuals, and have protected their privacy as they begin their new lives in Scotland. As Masri confirms: \u201cA lot of them have been through tragic and traumatic experiences, some were detained and tortured, and there is a big problem with post-traumatic stress. On top of that is the stress that moving to another continent and culture imposes, so their psychological situation is very sensitive.\u201dBut the Syrians he is in contact with have more workaday concerns, too. \u201cThere is the weather and the culture shock at the beginning, the short days in winter and the temperature. The pattern of daily life is different too, when the shops close and when life on the streets stops. In Syria we have cafes that are open late at night, but here there are only pubs and bars.\u201d The language barrier is an immediate problem, says Masri, particularly because many of the new arrivals come from rural parts of Syria where access to education is scant. \u201cHow can they learn a different language when they don\u2019t know how to read and write in Arabic? So we are trying to teach them in parallel Arabic and English.\u201dOn the Isle of Bute, where 12 Syrian families arrived in the seaside town of Rothesay in early December, the council has hired two dedicated translators to work with the new arrivals. Related: 'People want to help': Scottish town prepares to host Syrian refugees Locals hope the setting will suit their new guests. As Clellan Sneddon, executive director of community services for Argyll and Bute council, explains: \u201cWe have got people who are from smaller towns or rural backgrounds and therefore we think the transition, the match, is a little better.\u201dVolunteers on Bute are quick to point out that their refugees don\u2019t actually know one another. A pop-up community centre, based in a church hall and staffed by locals, has proved essential, allowing women with small babies to support each other as well as providing a focus for visits from education and social workers.The centre has also allowed the refugees access to donated clothing in a more dignified environment: the items are displayed on rails so that the Syrians can choose themselves as though in a shop, with private changing areas for men and women. There is an ongoing difficulty that, while huge amounts of clothing have been collected, the one thing that people don\u2019t donate secondhand is underwear, especially thermals. There is no mosque on Bute so the possibility of a city imam travelling along the coast to conduct Friday prayers was discussed, while local supermarkets made inquiries about stocking halal meat. Concerns about lack of pulses in the Co-op were solved when Yotam Ottolenghi got in touch, offering to send chickpeas, spices and juices. A large donation of halal products was made soon after the refugees arrived and now the community centre hosts prayers every Friday from 11am to 1pm.Over Christmas, volunteers will continue to staff the centre. Most recently there was a call for multiple car seats to transport the younger family members to a showing of the local Christmas pantomime, Puss In Boots. The children found the concept of a dame hilarious.As Masri observes: \u201cIt\u2019s the children who adapt the quickest. They are like sponges.\u201d", "tags": ["Refugees", "World news", "Scotland", "UK news", "Immigration and asylum", "Migration"], "title": "Syrian refugees in Scotland: cold weather but warm welcome"},{"date": "2015-12-16T18:55:59Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Scotland\u2019s finance secretary raided council spending and imposed a new tax on second homes, as he boosted funding for the crisis-hit NHS in his final budget before next year\u2019s Scottish election.Taking his cue from George Osborne\u2019s budget, the SNP\u2019s John Swinney slashed spending for councils by 3.5% and said most second homes would have a 3% surcharge on their purchase price, on top of the normal property tax, raising up to \u00a329m next year.In a sign he has been stung by repeated attacks by opponents and economists for allowing health spending to lag and by growing evidence of NHS funding shortfalls, Swinney announced a \u00a3500m increase in NHS budgets. That would increase overall health spending to \u00a313bn.\u201cThe nature and scale of the challenges facing our NHS \u2013 in particular the challenge of an ageing population \u2013 mean that additional money alone will not equip it properly for the future,\u201d he said. \u201cTo be blunt, if all we do is fund our NHS to deliver more of the same, it will not cope with the pressures it faces.\u201dThe cuts to councils were alleviated by a transfer of \u00a3250m from NHS spending to increase social care services by local authorities, but furious council leaders accused Swinney of decimating their workforce. Excluding that \u00a3250m switch in social care funding, council budgets are being cut by more than 7% in real terms across other areas of spending, forcing up fees for services. Related: Scottish government to freeze income tax rates in pre-election budget Glasgow, with the country\u2019s poorest residents and already preparing to axe 3,000 jobs to save \u00a3103m, will lose a further \u00a344m. David O\u2019Neill, the leader of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities, said the job losses from a \u00a3350m cut in overall funding which would follow equalled 50 times the job losses from Tata\u2019s steelworks at Motherwell and Cambuslang. \u201cA cut of 3.5% is catastrophic for jobs and services within Scottish local government \u2013 because the harsh reality is that it actually translates to real job cuts that hit real families, in real communities throughout Scotland. Everyone will be hurt by this.\u201dAs expected, Swinney froze Scotland\u2019s council tax rates for the ninth year running and held income taxes at their current rates despite having new powers to raise or lower income tax from April 2016. Inviting Tory accusations of timidity for failing to use his new powers to fund public services after he complained about a 0.7% cut in his Treasury grant, Swinney said the current income tax reforms were too crude.They only allowed the Scottish government to raise or lower tax rates by exactly the same amount, he said, and that would disproportionately help the richest. \u201cSo the simple fact is, this tax power does not enable me to target help to those on the lowest incomes,\u201d Swinney said. \u201cI do however have the power to ensure that this tax does not inflict an additional burden on those on low incomes.\u201dIn the most far-reaching reforms yet to Holyrood\u2019s tax powers, it will be able to set different income tax rates and bands from April 2017. Swinney said he would set out his plans for those new Scotland-only rates before the Holyrood elections next May. Swinney repeatedly cut other budgets to fund the health spending, a modest increase in frontline police spending and a 1% real terms increase in social housing spending. Rail spending was cut by \u00a357m or 7% to \u00a3751m but capital spending on trunk roads and motorways went up by \u00a3126m overall. The arts saw some of the heaviest losses: prominent national companies such as Scottish Ballet, the National Theatre of Scotland and Scottish Opera, had their funds cut by 17%, losing \u00a34.7m. Creative Scotland, the arts funding agency, had its budget cut by \u00a35m or 7%.There was a \u00a315m or 2.6% real terms cut in environment spending, hitting Scottish Natural Heritage, Marine Scotland, the Forestry Commission, the Scottish Environment Protection Agency and Zero Waste. Overall spending for justice and courts was cut by nearly \u00a3100m, or 3.6%. The Scottish Prison Service lost \u00a345m or 11%.  Related: Scottish councils hold record debts of \u00a314.8bn \u2013 and are still borrowing He was ridiculed after giving opposition parties and the media an advance copy of his speech which was heavily censored: 103 lines of text dealing with the council and income tax freeze were redacted by black lines. His only unexpected tax announcement was a \u00a3130m rise in business rates for large firms and supermarkets. Swinney said last year\u2019s budget statement had also been redacted in advance to withhold his new property tax rates until he disclosed those in the chamber.Jackie Baillie, Scottish Labour\u2019s finance spokeswoman, said Swinney\u2019s statement concealed a series of heavy cuts. \u201cThis is the most important budget since devolution, delivered by a party who promised to stand up for Scotland against Tory austerity. But it doesn\u2019t deliver fairer taxes, a long term plan for Scotland or an anti-austerity alternative. Local services like our schools, roads and care of the elderly will face massive cuts,\u201d she said.Murdo Fraser, the Scottish Tory finance spokesman, said he welcomed the income tax freeze but said the new tax power prevented Swinney from repeatedly blaming the Treasury for his budget decisions. \u201cIt cannot be forgotten that John Swinney had the choice in the matter, and he chose not to increase the resource available to him by levying additional taxes,\u201d he said.\u201cFor years, the finance secretary has portrayed himself as a prisoner of Westminster austerity, but now that he has been given the key to the door of his cell, he has decided not to use it.\u201d", "tags": ["Scottish National party (SNP)", "Scottish politics", "Politics", "Scotland", "UK news"], "title": "Scotland budget: NHS spending boosted as council funds slashed"},{"date": "2015-12-15T23:16:26Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Police in London have issued photographs and appealed for assistance from the public to trace three schoolgirls who have been reported missing.They were named as Fardowsa Hassan, 13, and two sisters, Abir Salah, 16, and Ahlam Salah, 15. All are from the Wood Green area of north London and are believed to be together.The Metropolitan police said that the teenagers were not thought to have left the country but may be sleeping on buses or elsewhere on the transport network.Fardowsa and Abir were reported missing on 6 December while Ahlam was reported missing on 12 December.A statement issued by Scotland Yard described Fardowsa as being of Arabic appearance, 5ft 5in tall and of medium build.It said that Abir is black, of Somali descent, 5ft 10in tall and of medium build. Ahlam is black, of Somali descent, 5ft 5in tall and of medium build.\u201cAll the girls\u2019 families are concerned for their welfare and urge them to contact them, or the police, to let them know they are safe and well,\u201d it added.Anyone with information is asked to contact Haringey missing persons unit on 101.", "tags": ["UK news", "Police"], "title": "Scotland Yard appeal for help finding three missing schoolgirls"},{"date": "2015-12-13T16:51:30Z", "country": "scotland", "content": "Royal Bank of Scotland has become embroiled in another scandal after admitting that it was wrong to deny sitting on almost quarter of a million pounds of customer money. The troubled lender said it had now agreed to return cash to as many as 4,500 customers after apologising to them for the mistake.The controversy is a major blow to chief executive Ross McEwan, who has promised to return customer trust to the largely state-owned bank after a series of mis-selling scandals following on from a financial bailout in 2008.RBS blamed the latest setback to faulty computer settings established to identify the owners of dormant accounts. \u201cUnfortunately, we wrongly advised some customers who had made a request ... that they did not hold a dormant account with us,\u201d said an RBS spokesperson. \u201cWe are very sorry that this happened, and as soon as we discovered this, we took steps to correct our error. We are writing to all affected customers and asking them to visit their local branch with ID to reclaim their outstanding balance.\u201dFollowing a wider outcry about the amount of money being held in inactive accounts by many different lenders, a free website, Mylostaccount.org.uk, was established in 2008 by the British Bankers\u2019 Association (BBA). RBS is now under threat of an investigation by the Financial Conduct Authority into how its software gave erroneous information to those trying to access money via the Mylostaccount website.It is not the first time the lender, which is still 74% owned by the taxpayer, has been hit by IT glitches, with 600,000 transactions being delayed five months ago as a result of computer failures. The company was also fined \u00a356m last year for IT difficulties that locked customers out of their accounts. But these issues are small compared to penalties for rigging the foreign exchange markets and mis-selling scandals which have battered the bank\u2019s balance sheet.RBS has set aside almost \u00a32bn as it awaits to hear the scale of the fine to be imposed on it and others over its sale of mortgage-backed securities that some critics say played a significant role in the wider financial collapse seven years ago.Credit agencies have warned that the scale of fines on RBS and the wider finance industry are hard to quantify. \u201cMost US and European global investment banks have set aside large provisions for future litigation costs,\u201d said Moody\u2019s. \u201cHowever, the complexity, uncertainty and the escalating nature of these costs present tail risk that is difficult to quantify in any stress test.\u201dThe RBS share price has been badly hit by the ongoing problems and is 20% below the level at which it started 2015. ", "tags": ["Royal Bank of Scotland", "Banking", "Business", "Banks and building societies", "Current accounts", "Money", "UK news"], "title": "Royal Bank of Scotland under fire over dormant accounts"},