{"date": "2008-03-04T12:45:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian president Vladimir Putin and his successor Dmitry Medvedev in Red Square in Moscow. Photograph: Vladimir Rodionov/EPADmitry Medvedev celebrated his victory in the Russian presidential election with a rock concert in Red Square, Moscow. I have not yet seen transcripts of his speech, but I think I could guess at a few phrases. Perhaps, \"For those about to rock, we salute you\" (AC/DC), accompained by a devil's horn salute. Or maybe, \"You are my people, you are my crowd, this is our music, we love it loud\" (Kiss), followed by a lewd tongue waggle.President Medvedev is a rocker, a roller, a right out-of-controller. At least, he is in his publicity materials, boasting of his hard rocking ways to counter his image as a backroom lawyer, author of a textbook on the Civil Code. Medvedev loves Zep, the Sabs and, especially, Deep Purple. He announced his candidacy by recounting how he collected the original vinyl copies of every Deep Purple record; which strikes me as just the kind of nerdy completism one would expect from a backroom lawyer-type.Medvedev may yet turn Russia into a new Wayne's World, putting the par-tee into Putin's United Russia party. But his fealty to the royalty of British rock was widespread in Russian universities in the 1980s. My wife is a contemporary, attending Moscow State University at the same time Medvedev was at Leningrad State University. She recalls the student dorms echoing to rock, especially the holy triumvirate of Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath (though my wife continues to have a soft spot for Nazareth).It is easy to see why Russians love British rock. Deep Purple are the musos, with keyboard player Jon Lord's showy references to Russian composer Rimsky-Korsakov. Black Sabbath are more meaty, or meat-headed, but have the chundering riffs, like the Red Army crossing the Rhine. Led Zeppelin have a pastoral edge, the perfect accompaniment to a summer evening at the dacha among the silver birches.Given Russia's love for this music, could it have affected the course of history? Were Gorbachev and his team influenced by the young comrades in the universities? Could Ozzie Osbourne, Ian Gillan and Robert Plant have contributed to the end of the Cold War?Ozzie's sharp insight that \"Generals gather in their masses/Just like witches at black masses\", is a powerful argument for an intercontinental ballistic missile treaty, like the one Gorbachev brokered in Reykjavik with Reagan. Led Zeppelin's infectious love of freedom (\"Baby, I don't want to leave you/But when the summer comes around I gotta to ramble\") leads inevitably to Glasnost.What could Deep Purple have contributed? Gillan looks a little like a Russian Orthodox Priest, but so do most members of outlaw motorcycle gangs. Jon Lord's classically trained fingers may have persuaded Russians that it was possible to embrace the new without abandoning the old. But I suspect it was middle-period Deep Purple that proved decisive: the Coverdale years. Once you have heard the double entendres that characterise the songs of David Coverdale, showcased on the album Come Taste the Band, dialectical materialism simply loses its savour.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Medvedev rocks Russia"},{"date": "2008-03-04T12:45:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian president Vladimir Putin and his successor Dmitry Medvedev in Red Square in Moscow. Photograph: Vladimir Rodionov/EPADmitry Medvedev celebrated his victory in the Russian presidential election with a rock concert in Red Square, Moscow. I have not yet seen transcripts of his speech, but I think I could guess at a few phrases. Perhaps, \"For those about to rock, we salute you\" (AC/DC), accompained by a devil's horn salute. Or maybe, \"You are my people, you are my crowd, this is our music, we love it loud\" (Kiss), followed by a lewd tongue waggle.President Medvedev is a rocker, a roller, a right out-of-controller. At least, he is in his publicity materials, boasting of his hard rocking ways to counter his image as a backroom lawyer, author of a textbook on the Civil Code. Medvedev loves Zep, the Sabs and, especially, Deep Purple. He announced his candidacy by recounting how he collected the original vinyl copies of every Deep Purple record; which strikes me as just the kind of nerdy completism one would expect from a backroom lawyer-type.Medvedev may yet turn Russia into a new Wayne's World, putting the par-tee into Putin's United Russia party. But his fealty to the royalty of British rock was widespread in Russian universities in the 1980s. My wife is a contemporary, attending Moscow State University at the same time Medvedev was at Leningrad State University. She recalls the student dorms echoing to rock, especially the holy triumvirate of Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath (though my wife continues to have a soft spot for Nazareth).It is easy to see why Russians love British rock. Deep Purple are the musos, with keyboard player Jon Lord's showy references to Russian composer Rimsky-Korsakov. Black Sabbath are more meaty, or meat-headed, but have the chundering riffs, like the Red Army crossing the Rhine. Led Zeppelin have a pastoral edge, the perfect accompaniment to a summer evening at the dacha among the silver birches.Given Russia's love for this music, could it have affected the course of history? Were Gorbachev and his team influenced by the young comrades in the universities? Could Ozzie Osbourne, Ian Gillan and Robert Plant have contributed to the end of the Cold War?Ozzie's sharp insight that \"Generals gather in their masses/Just like witches at black masses\", is a powerful argument for an intercontinental ballistic missile treaty, like the one Gorbachev brokered in Reykjavik with Reagan. Led Zeppelin's infectious love of freedom (\"Baby, I don't want to leave you/But when the summer comes around I gotta to ramble\") leads inevitably to Glasnost.What could Deep Purple have contributed? Gillan looks a little like a Russian Orthodox Priest, but so do most members of outlaw motorcycle gangs. Jon Lord's classically trained fingers may have persuaded Russians that it was possible to embrace the new without abandoning the old. But I suspect it was middle-period Deep Purple that proved decisive: the Coverdale years. Once you have heard the double entendres that characterise the songs of David Coverdale, showcased on the album Come Taste the Band, dialectical materialism simply loses its savour.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Medvedev rocks Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-23T13:11:06Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The most talked-about and highly anticipated exhibition of recent months, the Royal Academy's From Russia exhibition has finally arrived in London. Diplomatic row aside, the show has been dogged by controversy even up to its glamorous preview opening, with descendants of the Russian tsarist-era collectors seeking compensation for their lost art. All  \u00a33bn of it.Politics has inevitably seeped into today's reviews. The Independent's Tom Lubbuck reminds us that Alexander Litvinenko was \"irradiated more or less opposite the Royal Academy, which brings the issue into nice proximity\". The blockbuster wasn't worth the diplomatic sacrifice, he writes, and sometimes there is a price to pay for art - and he's not talking about the \u00a311 entry fee.Lubbock attacks the exhibition in two rounds: once surveying the curious and unfamiliar, and then taking the time to stop at the \"impressive and transfixing\" Matisses. After assessing that \"there is a mixture of the terrible, the dull, the interesting, the good and the great\", Lubbock refers to his own critique as the kind of \"snotty, judgemental thing that critics are always saying\". You cannot rank these paintings like \"top dogs and prize marrows,\" he says: sometimes you come across a work and fall under its spell.The Guardian's art critic Adrian Searle is not so intoxicated. There's no doubt the show is a splendid collection of masterpieces from the Russian state museums at the time of the 1917 revolution, but \"who wants one damn masterpiece after another?\", he asks.Searle calls the show a \"great, ghastly, revolutionary and hilarious\" ride, while the fluid figures in Matisse's The Dance - billed as the star of the show, ubiquitous on posters around London and hailed as \"the most beautiful modern painting in the world\" by the Guardian's Jonathan Jones - reminds Searle of \"cavorting prawns\". No matter, the show \"is worth braving the crowds\", he reckons.Barely a sentence in and the Telegraph's Richard Dorment practically elbows readers to the front of the queue: \"Book your ticket right now,\" he exhorts. Dorment wends his way around the show's \"stupendous\" paintings, before the quality of the works takes a momentary \"nosedive\" in the room dedicated to the cubo-futurists. Luckily, \"something magical happens in the last room\" of 20th-century pioneers, Kandinsky and Malevich, and Dorment's sense of wonder is restored.Meanwhile, The Times's Rachel Campbell-Johnston declares it a \"pretty spectacular\" exhibition worth fighting for, with its \"rich mixture of treasures\" bound to cause a bottleneck in the opening galleries. She identifies the Russian painters' fierce pride and their pioneering, avante-garde art. \"The art of diplomacy does not have to be anodyne\", she concludes.", "tags": ["Art", "Culture", "Art and design"], "title": "Reviews roundup: what critics thought of the From Russia exhibition at the Royal Academy"},{"date": "2008-03-04T12:45:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian president Vladimir Putin and his successor Dmitry Medvedev in Red Square in Moscow. Photograph: Vladimir Rodionov/EPADmitry Medvedev celebrated his victory in the Russian presidential election with a rock concert in Red Square, Moscow. I have not yet seen transcripts of his speech, but I think I could guess at a few phrases. Perhaps, \"For those about to rock, we salute you\" (AC/DC), accompained by a devil's horn salute. Or maybe, \"You are my people, you are my crowd, this is our music, we love it loud\" (Kiss), followed by a lewd tongue waggle.President Medvedev is a rocker, a roller, a right out-of-controller. At least, he is in his publicity materials, boasting of his hard rocking ways to counter his image as a backroom lawyer, author of a textbook on the Civil Code. Medvedev loves Zep, the Sabs and, especially, Deep Purple. He announced his candidacy by recounting how he collected the original vinyl copies of every Deep Purple record; which strikes me as just the kind of nerdy completism one would expect from a backroom lawyer-type.Medvedev may yet turn Russia into a new Wayne's World, putting the par-tee into Putin's United Russia party. But his fealty to the royalty of British rock was widespread in Russian universities in the 1980s. My wife is a contemporary, attending Moscow State University at the same time Medvedev was at Leningrad State University. She recalls the student dorms echoing to rock, especially the holy triumvirate of Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath (though my wife continues to have a soft spot for Nazareth).It is easy to see why Russians love British rock. Deep Purple are the musos, with keyboard player Jon Lord's showy references to Russian composer Rimsky-Korsakov. Black Sabbath are more meaty, or meat-headed, but have the chundering riffs, like the Red Army crossing the Rhine. Led Zeppelin have a pastoral edge, the perfect accompaniment to a summer evening at the dacha among the silver birches.Given Russia's love for this music, could it have affected the course of history? Were Gorbachev and his team influenced by the young comrades in the universities? Could Ozzie Osbourne, Ian Gillan and Robert Plant have contributed to the end of the Cold War?Ozzie's sharp insight that \"Generals gather in their masses/Just like witches at black masses\", is a powerful argument for an intercontinental ballistic missile treaty, like the one Gorbachev brokered in Reykjavik with Reagan. Led Zeppelin's infectious love of freedom (\"Baby, I don't want to leave you/But when the summer comes around I gotta to ramble\") leads inevitably to Glasnost.What could Deep Purple have contributed? Gillan looks a little like a Russian Orthodox Priest, but so do most members of outlaw motorcycle gangs. Jon Lord's classically trained fingers may have persuaded Russians that it was possible to embrace the new without abandoning the old. But I suspect it was middle-period Deep Purple that proved decisive: the Coverdale years. Once you have heard the double entendres that characterise the songs of David Coverdale, showcased on the album Come Taste the Band, dialectical materialism simply loses its savour.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Medvedev rocks Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-23T13:11:06Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The most talked-about and highly anticipated exhibition of recent months, the Royal Academy's From Russia exhibition has finally arrived in London. Diplomatic row aside, the show has been dogged by controversy even up to its glamorous preview opening, with descendants of the Russian tsarist-era collectors seeking compensation for their lost art. All  \u00a33bn of it.Politics has inevitably seeped into today's reviews. The Independent's Tom Lubbuck reminds us that Alexander Litvinenko was \"irradiated more or less opposite the Royal Academy, which brings the issue into nice proximity\". The blockbuster wasn't worth the diplomatic sacrifice, he writes, and sometimes there is a price to pay for art - and he's not talking about the \u00a311 entry fee.Lubbock attacks the exhibition in two rounds: once surveying the curious and unfamiliar, and then taking the time to stop at the \"impressive and transfixing\" Matisses. After assessing that \"there is a mixture of the terrible, the dull, the interesting, the good and the great\", Lubbock refers to his own critique as the kind of \"snotty, judgemental thing that critics are always saying\". You cannot rank these paintings like \"top dogs and prize marrows,\" he says: sometimes you come across a work and fall under its spell.The Guardian's art critic Adrian Searle is not so intoxicated. There's no doubt the show is a splendid collection of masterpieces from the Russian state museums at the time of the 1917 revolution, but \"who wants one damn masterpiece after another?\", he asks.Searle calls the show a \"great, ghastly, revolutionary and hilarious\" ride, while the fluid figures in Matisse's The Dance - billed as the star of the show, ubiquitous on posters around London and hailed as \"the most beautiful modern painting in the world\" by the Guardian's Jonathan Jones - reminds Searle of \"cavorting prawns\". No matter, the show \"is worth braving the crowds\", he reckons.Barely a sentence in and the Telegraph's Richard Dorment practically elbows readers to the front of the queue: \"Book your ticket right now,\" he exhorts. Dorment wends his way around the show's \"stupendous\" paintings, before the quality of the works takes a momentary \"nosedive\" in the room dedicated to the cubo-futurists. Luckily, \"something magical happens in the last room\" of 20th-century pioneers, Kandinsky and Malevich, and Dorment's sense of wonder is restored.Meanwhile, The Times's Rachel Campbell-Johnston declares it a \"pretty spectacular\" exhibition worth fighting for, with its \"rich mixture of treasures\" bound to cause a bottleneck in the opening galleries. She identifies the Russian painters' fierce pride and their pioneering, avante-garde art. \"The art of diplomacy does not have to be anodyne\", she concludes.", "tags": ["Art", "Culture", "Art and design"], "title": "Reviews roundup: what critics thought of the From Russia exhibition at the Royal Academy"},{"date": "2008-01-10T12:15:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A blockbuster exhibition of paintings from Moscow and St Petersburg will go ahead as planned after Russian authorities confirmed the loans had been approved. The Royal Academy show, From Russia: French and Russian Master Paintings 1870-1925, will now go ahead in London on January 26 2008.Doubt was cast after Russia withdrew permission for the loan of the masterpieces for the exhibition fearing legal action from descendants claiming ownership of the paintings. Permission was eventually granted after \"maximum possible assurances\" were given from the British government and new legislation was fast-tracked to protect art from seizure.The Royal Academy received official notification yesterday from Mikhail Shvydkoi, director of the Russian federal agency for culture and cinematography, approving the loans. Shvydkoi said: \"Having consulted with colleagues from the ministry of foreign affairs, we have come to the conclusion that, having received the maximum possible assurance of the British government, there is therefore every reason to permit the holding of such exhibition in the designated time frame - from January 26 to April 18 2008.\"Charles Saumarez Smith, the chief executive of the Royal Academy, said that the body was \"absolutely delighted\". He praised the \"enormous help and close collaboration\" from the department for culture, media and sport, the federal agency for culture and cinematography, the Russian embassy in London and the British embassy in Moscow as well as the four Russian state museums. \"We are grateful to them all,\" he said.A diplomatic spat between Russia and the UK ensued in the aftermath of the murder of former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko in London, but both governments denied this was a factor. The frosty relations saw the British Council, a non-political body that acts as a cultural department for the British embassy, ordered to shut down virtually its entire operation. Russia previously said that it would issue licences for the paintings, which include works by Renoir, Cezanne, Van Gogh and Picasso, to go to the Royal Academy once the legislation was implemented. But officials stressed that \"the law must ensure the art's immunity from seizure\".The new legislation is Part 6 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007, which received royal assent in July 2007. Part 6 of the act means descendants of the original owners cannot bring their claims on British soil. The legislation is intended to ensure that cultural objects can be loaned for exhibition in the UK without fear that they may be subject to seizure or forfeiture and brings Britain in line with the rest of Europe.The exhibition attracted more than 200,000 visitors in D\u00fcsseldorf, Germany, where it had been on show before it transfers to London.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "Russia approves Academy show"},{"date": "2008-03-04T12:45:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian president Vladimir Putin and his successor Dmitry Medvedev in Red Square in Moscow. Photograph: Vladimir Rodionov/EPADmitry Medvedev celebrated his victory in the Russian presidential election with a rock concert in Red Square, Moscow. I have not yet seen transcripts of his speech, but I think I could guess at a few phrases. Perhaps, \"For those about to rock, we salute you\" (AC/DC), accompained by a devil's horn salute. Or maybe, \"You are my people, you are my crowd, this is our music, we love it loud\" (Kiss), followed by a lewd tongue waggle.President Medvedev is a rocker, a roller, a right out-of-controller. At least, he is in his publicity materials, boasting of his hard rocking ways to counter his image as a backroom lawyer, author of a textbook on the Civil Code. Medvedev loves Zep, the Sabs and, especially, Deep Purple. He announced his candidacy by recounting how he collected the original vinyl copies of every Deep Purple record; which strikes me as just the kind of nerdy completism one would expect from a backroom lawyer-type.Medvedev may yet turn Russia into a new Wayne's World, putting the par-tee into Putin's United Russia party. But his fealty to the royalty of British rock was widespread in Russian universities in the 1980s. My wife is a contemporary, attending Moscow State University at the same time Medvedev was at Leningrad State University. She recalls the student dorms echoing to rock, especially the holy triumvirate of Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath (though my wife continues to have a soft spot for Nazareth).It is easy to see why Russians love British rock. Deep Purple are the musos, with keyboard player Jon Lord's showy references to Russian composer Rimsky-Korsakov. Black Sabbath are more meaty, or meat-headed, but have the chundering riffs, like the Red Army crossing the Rhine. Led Zeppelin have a pastoral edge, the perfect accompaniment to a summer evening at the dacha among the silver birches.Given Russia's love for this music, could it have affected the course of history? Were Gorbachev and his team influenced by the young comrades in the universities? Could Ozzie Osbourne, Ian Gillan and Robert Plant have contributed to the end of the Cold War?Ozzie's sharp insight that \"Generals gather in their masses/Just like witches at black masses\", is a powerful argument for an intercontinental ballistic missile treaty, like the one Gorbachev brokered in Reykjavik with Reagan. Led Zeppelin's infectious love of freedom (\"Baby, I don't want to leave you/But when the summer comes around I gotta to ramble\") leads inevitably to Glasnost.What could Deep Purple have contributed? Gillan looks a little like a Russian Orthodox Priest, but so do most members of outlaw motorcycle gangs. Jon Lord's classically trained fingers may have persuaded Russians that it was possible to embrace the new without abandoning the old. But I suspect it was middle-period Deep Purple that proved decisive: the Coverdale years. Once you have heard the double entendres that characterise the songs of David Coverdale, showcased on the album Come Taste the Band, dialectical materialism simply loses its savour.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Medvedev rocks Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-23T13:11:06Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The most talked-about and highly anticipated exhibition of recent months, the Royal Academy's From Russia exhibition has finally arrived in London. Diplomatic row aside, the show has been dogged by controversy even up to its glamorous preview opening, with descendants of the Russian tsarist-era collectors seeking compensation for their lost art. All  \u00a33bn of it.Politics has inevitably seeped into today's reviews. The Independent's Tom Lubbuck reminds us that Alexander Litvinenko was \"irradiated more or less opposite the Royal Academy, which brings the issue into nice proximity\". The blockbuster wasn't worth the diplomatic sacrifice, he writes, and sometimes there is a price to pay for art - and he's not talking about the \u00a311 entry fee.Lubbock attacks the exhibition in two rounds: once surveying the curious and unfamiliar, and then taking the time to stop at the \"impressive and transfixing\" Matisses. After assessing that \"there is a mixture of the terrible, the dull, the interesting, the good and the great\", Lubbock refers to his own critique as the kind of \"snotty, judgemental thing that critics are always saying\". You cannot rank these paintings like \"top dogs and prize marrows,\" he says: sometimes you come across a work and fall under its spell.The Guardian's art critic Adrian Searle is not so intoxicated. There's no doubt the show is a splendid collection of masterpieces from the Russian state museums at the time of the 1917 revolution, but \"who wants one damn masterpiece after another?\", he asks.Searle calls the show a \"great, ghastly, revolutionary and hilarious\" ride, while the fluid figures in Matisse's The Dance - billed as the star of the show, ubiquitous on posters around London and hailed as \"the most beautiful modern painting in the world\" by the Guardian's Jonathan Jones - reminds Searle of \"cavorting prawns\". No matter, the show \"is worth braving the crowds\", he reckons.Barely a sentence in and the Telegraph's Richard Dorment practically elbows readers to the front of the queue: \"Book your ticket right now,\" he exhorts. Dorment wends his way around the show's \"stupendous\" paintings, before the quality of the works takes a momentary \"nosedive\" in the room dedicated to the cubo-futurists. Luckily, \"something magical happens in the last room\" of 20th-century pioneers, Kandinsky and Malevich, and Dorment's sense of wonder is restored.Meanwhile, The Times's Rachel Campbell-Johnston declares it a \"pretty spectacular\" exhibition worth fighting for, with its \"rich mixture of treasures\" bound to cause a bottleneck in the opening galleries. She identifies the Russian painters' fierce pride and their pioneering, avante-garde art. \"The art of diplomacy does not have to be anodyne\", she concludes.", "tags": ["Art", "Culture", "Art and design"], "title": "Reviews roundup: what critics thought of the From Russia exhibition at the Royal Academy"},{"date": "2008-01-10T12:15:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A blockbuster exhibition of paintings from Moscow and St Petersburg will go ahead as planned after Russian authorities confirmed the loans had been approved. The Royal Academy show, From Russia: French and Russian Master Paintings 1870-1925, will now go ahead in London on January 26 2008.Doubt was cast after Russia withdrew permission for the loan of the masterpieces for the exhibition fearing legal action from descendants claiming ownership of the paintings. Permission was eventually granted after \"maximum possible assurances\" were given from the British government and new legislation was fast-tracked to protect art from seizure.The Royal Academy received official notification yesterday from Mikhail Shvydkoi, director of the Russian federal agency for culture and cinematography, approving the loans. Shvydkoi said: \"Having consulted with colleagues from the ministry of foreign affairs, we have come to the conclusion that, having received the maximum possible assurance of the British government, there is therefore every reason to permit the holding of such exhibition in the designated time frame - from January 26 to April 18 2008.\"Charles Saumarez Smith, the chief executive of the Royal Academy, said that the body was \"absolutely delighted\". He praised the \"enormous help and close collaboration\" from the department for culture, media and sport, the federal agency for culture and cinematography, the Russian embassy in London and the British embassy in Moscow as well as the four Russian state museums. \"We are grateful to them all,\" he said.A diplomatic spat between Russia and the UK ensued in the aftermath of the murder of former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko in London, but both governments denied this was a factor. The frosty relations saw the British Council, a non-political body that acts as a cultural department for the British embassy, ordered to shut down virtually its entire operation. Russia previously said that it would issue licences for the paintings, which include works by Renoir, Cezanne, Van Gogh and Picasso, to go to the Royal Academy once the legislation was implemented. But officials stressed that \"the law must ensure the art's immunity from seizure\".The new legislation is Part 6 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007, which received royal assent in July 2007. Part 6 of the act means descendants of the original owners cannot bring their claims on British soil. The legislation is intended to ensure that cultural objects can be loaned for exhibition in the UK without fear that they may be subject to seizure or forfeiture and brings Britain in line with the rest of Europe.The exhibition attracted more than 200,000 visitors in D\u00fcsseldorf, Germany, where it had been on show before it transfers to London.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "Russia approves Academy show"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:27:21Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin said yesterday that Russia was not interested in a return to the cold war. We are all glad to hear it, but it was the Russian president himself who let this particular hare out of the trap. A year ago, at a security conference in Munich, he accused the US of trying to dominate the world \"with no restraint - a hyper-inflated use of force\". Two months later, at a Victory Day parade in Moscow, Mr Putin said the world faced a threat to peace similar to that posed by the Third Reich. If Mr Putin is now saying that Russia will work \"towards the construction of a positive dialogue\" with whomever becomes the next US president, that is a change in tone we should welcome.But nothing is that simple. In his last annual press conference before leaving the Kremlin, Mr Putin restated his opposition to the Pentagon's plans to install missile-defence systems in central Europe. He said Russia would be forced to re-target its missiles on Poland and the Czech Republic, where the missile battery and radar station would be based, if the project went ahead. Russia's deputy foreign minister, Sergei Kislyak, delivered the same message when he went to Warsaw last month. Yesterday Mr Putin added the rider that Russia would only re-target its warheads in \"extreme necessity\".There are two main reasons why the west should not be led down the garden path by those who argue that the KGB is back in control, that Russia has returned to the mindset of the Soviet Union and that we do indeed face a new cold war. First, it is not true. Vladimir Putin's Russia is nothing like Yuri Andropov's Soviet Union. Russia is capitalist. Its armed forces have a fraction of the global reach and power of its Soviet predecessor's. Its military-industrial complex is a pale shadow of America's. Russia does not have a competing ideology; in fact it has little ideology at all. If any country competes for natural resources in Africa or Latin America, it is China, not Russia.Second, Russia is not the same place internally. None of this is to deny the murder of journalists and political opponents, rigged elections or the existence of political prisoners. In today's authoritarian Russia there are all three. Yet, qualitatively and quantitatively, it is a different place. The Kremlin does not have the control it once had over the minds of millions of its citizens. As Mr Putin says, Russia is primarily interested in enriching itself and protecting its interests. It may have difficulty defining those interests, let alone achieving them. Russian diplomacy often feels like a contradiction in terms. It may threaten to cut off gas supplies and bully its neighbours with trade boycotts. But Russia is not a natural enemy, unless the west reacts in a way which makes it one again.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Leader: Russia"},{"date": "2008-03-04T12:45:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian president Vladimir Putin and his successor Dmitry Medvedev in Red Square in Moscow. Photograph: Vladimir Rodionov/EPADmitry Medvedev celebrated his victory in the Russian presidential election with a rock concert in Red Square, Moscow. I have not yet seen transcripts of his speech, but I think I could guess at a few phrases. Perhaps, \"For those about to rock, we salute you\" (AC/DC), accompained by a devil's horn salute. Or maybe, \"You are my people, you are my crowd, this is our music, we love it loud\" (Kiss), followed by a lewd tongue waggle.President Medvedev is a rocker, a roller, a right out-of-controller. At least, he is in his publicity materials, boasting of his hard rocking ways to counter his image as a backroom lawyer, author of a textbook on the Civil Code. Medvedev loves Zep, the Sabs and, especially, Deep Purple. He announced his candidacy by recounting how he collected the original vinyl copies of every Deep Purple record; which strikes me as just the kind of nerdy completism one would expect from a backroom lawyer-type.Medvedev may yet turn Russia into a new Wayne's World, putting the par-tee into Putin's United Russia party. But his fealty to the royalty of British rock was widespread in Russian universities in the 1980s. My wife is a contemporary, attending Moscow State University at the same time Medvedev was at Leningrad State University. She recalls the student dorms echoing to rock, especially the holy triumvirate of Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath (though my wife continues to have a soft spot for Nazareth).It is easy to see why Russians love British rock. Deep Purple are the musos, with keyboard player Jon Lord's showy references to Russian composer Rimsky-Korsakov. Black Sabbath are more meaty, or meat-headed, but have the chundering riffs, like the Red Army crossing the Rhine. Led Zeppelin have a pastoral edge, the perfect accompaniment to a summer evening at the dacha among the silver birches.Given Russia's love for this music, could it have affected the course of history? Were Gorbachev and his team influenced by the young comrades in the universities? Could Ozzie Osbourne, Ian Gillan and Robert Plant have contributed to the end of the Cold War?Ozzie's sharp insight that \"Generals gather in their masses/Just like witches at black masses\", is a powerful argument for an intercontinental ballistic missile treaty, like the one Gorbachev brokered in Reykjavik with Reagan. Led Zeppelin's infectious love of freedom (\"Baby, I don't want to leave you/But when the summer comes around I gotta to ramble\") leads inevitably to Glasnost.What could Deep Purple have contributed? Gillan looks a little like a Russian Orthodox Priest, but so do most members of outlaw motorcycle gangs. Jon Lord's classically trained fingers may have persuaded Russians that it was possible to embrace the new without abandoning the old. But I suspect it was middle-period Deep Purple that proved decisive: the Coverdale years. Once you have heard the double entendres that characterise the songs of David Coverdale, showcased on the album Come Taste the Band, dialectical materialism simply loses its savour.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Medvedev rocks Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-23T13:11:06Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The most talked-about and highly anticipated exhibition of recent months, the Royal Academy's From Russia exhibition has finally arrived in London. Diplomatic row aside, the show has been dogged by controversy even up to its glamorous preview opening, with descendants of the Russian tsarist-era collectors seeking compensation for their lost art. All  \u00a33bn of it.Politics has inevitably seeped into today's reviews. The Independent's Tom Lubbuck reminds us that Alexander Litvinenko was \"irradiated more or less opposite the Royal Academy, which brings the issue into nice proximity\". The blockbuster wasn't worth the diplomatic sacrifice, he writes, and sometimes there is a price to pay for art - and he's not talking about the \u00a311 entry fee.Lubbock attacks the exhibition in two rounds: once surveying the curious and unfamiliar, and then taking the time to stop at the \"impressive and transfixing\" Matisses. After assessing that \"there is a mixture of the terrible, the dull, the interesting, the good and the great\", Lubbock refers to his own critique as the kind of \"snotty, judgemental thing that critics are always saying\". You cannot rank these paintings like \"top dogs and prize marrows,\" he says: sometimes you come across a work and fall under its spell.The Guardian's art critic Adrian Searle is not so intoxicated. There's no doubt the show is a splendid collection of masterpieces from the Russian state museums at the time of the 1917 revolution, but \"who wants one damn masterpiece after another?\", he asks.Searle calls the show a \"great, ghastly, revolutionary and hilarious\" ride, while the fluid figures in Matisse's The Dance - billed as the star of the show, ubiquitous on posters around London and hailed as \"the most beautiful modern painting in the world\" by the Guardian's Jonathan Jones - reminds Searle of \"cavorting prawns\". No matter, the show \"is worth braving the crowds\", he reckons.Barely a sentence in and the Telegraph's Richard Dorment practically elbows readers to the front of the queue: \"Book your ticket right now,\" he exhorts. Dorment wends his way around the show's \"stupendous\" paintings, before the quality of the works takes a momentary \"nosedive\" in the room dedicated to the cubo-futurists. Luckily, \"something magical happens in the last room\" of 20th-century pioneers, Kandinsky and Malevich, and Dorment's sense of wonder is restored.Meanwhile, The Times's Rachel Campbell-Johnston declares it a \"pretty spectacular\" exhibition worth fighting for, with its \"rich mixture of treasures\" bound to cause a bottleneck in the opening galleries. She identifies the Russian painters' fierce pride and their pioneering, avante-garde art. \"The art of diplomacy does not have to be anodyne\", she concludes.", "tags": ["Art", "Culture", "Art and design"], "title": "Reviews roundup: what critics thought of the From Russia exhibition at the Royal Academy"},{"date": "2008-01-10T12:15:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A blockbuster exhibition of paintings from Moscow and St Petersburg will go ahead as planned after Russian authorities confirmed the loans had been approved. The Royal Academy show, From Russia: French and Russian Master Paintings 1870-1925, will now go ahead in London on January 26 2008.Doubt was cast after Russia withdrew permission for the loan of the masterpieces for the exhibition fearing legal action from descendants claiming ownership of the paintings. Permission was eventually granted after \"maximum possible assurances\" were given from the British government and new legislation was fast-tracked to protect art from seizure.The Royal Academy received official notification yesterday from Mikhail Shvydkoi, director of the Russian federal agency for culture and cinematography, approving the loans. Shvydkoi said: \"Having consulted with colleagues from the ministry of foreign affairs, we have come to the conclusion that, having received the maximum possible assurance of the British government, there is therefore every reason to permit the holding of such exhibition in the designated time frame - from January 26 to April 18 2008.\"Charles Saumarez Smith, the chief executive of the Royal Academy, said that the body was \"absolutely delighted\". He praised the \"enormous help and close collaboration\" from the department for culture, media and sport, the federal agency for culture and cinematography, the Russian embassy in London and the British embassy in Moscow as well as the four Russian state museums. \"We are grateful to them all,\" he said.A diplomatic spat between Russia and the UK ensued in the aftermath of the murder of former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko in London, but both governments denied this was a factor. The frosty relations saw the British Council, a non-political body that acts as a cultural department for the British embassy, ordered to shut down virtually its entire operation. Russia previously said that it would issue licences for the paintings, which include works by Renoir, Cezanne, Van Gogh and Picasso, to go to the Royal Academy once the legislation was implemented. But officials stressed that \"the law must ensure the art's immunity from seizure\".The new legislation is Part 6 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007, which received royal assent in July 2007. Part 6 of the act means descendants of the original owners cannot bring their claims on British soil. The legislation is intended to ensure that cultural objects can be loaned for exhibition in the UK without fear that they may be subject to seizure or forfeiture and brings Britain in line with the rest of Europe.The exhibition attracted more than 200,000 visitors in D\u00fcsseldorf, Germany, where it had been on show before it transfers to London.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "Russia approves Academy show"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:27:21Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin said yesterday that Russia was not interested in a return to the cold war. We are all glad to hear it, but it was the Russian president himself who let this particular hare out of the trap. A year ago, at a security conference in Munich, he accused the US of trying to dominate the world \"with no restraint - a hyper-inflated use of force\". Two months later, at a Victory Day parade in Moscow, Mr Putin said the world faced a threat to peace similar to that posed by the Third Reich. If Mr Putin is now saying that Russia will work \"towards the construction of a positive dialogue\" with whomever becomes the next US president, that is a change in tone we should welcome.But nothing is that simple. In his last annual press conference before leaving the Kremlin, Mr Putin restated his opposition to the Pentagon's plans to install missile-defence systems in central Europe. He said Russia would be forced to re-target its missiles on Poland and the Czech Republic, where the missile battery and radar station would be based, if the project went ahead. Russia's deputy foreign minister, Sergei Kislyak, delivered the same message when he went to Warsaw last month. Yesterday Mr Putin added the rider that Russia would only re-target its warheads in \"extreme necessity\".There are two main reasons why the west should not be led down the garden path by those who argue that the KGB is back in control, that Russia has returned to the mindset of the Soviet Union and that we do indeed face a new cold war. First, it is not true. Vladimir Putin's Russia is nothing like Yuri Andropov's Soviet Union. Russia is capitalist. Its armed forces have a fraction of the global reach and power of its Soviet predecessor's. Its military-industrial complex is a pale shadow of America's. Russia does not have a competing ideology; in fact it has little ideology at all. If any country competes for natural resources in Africa or Latin America, it is China, not Russia.Second, Russia is not the same place internally. None of this is to deny the murder of journalists and political opponents, rigged elections or the existence of political prisoners. In today's authoritarian Russia there are all three. Yet, qualitatively and quantitatively, it is a different place. The Kremlin does not have the control it once had over the minds of millions of its citizens. As Mr Putin says, Russia is primarily interested in enriching itself and protecting its interests. It may have difficulty defining those interests, let alone achieving them. Russian diplomacy often feels like a contradiction in terms. It may threaten to cut off gas supplies and bully its neighbours with trade boycotts. But Russia is not a natural enemy, unless the west reacts in a way which makes it one again.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Leader: Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-16T18:53:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The council this morning said it was \"deeply concerned\" for the safety of its British and Russian staff in Russia after the detention last night of the director of its St Petersburg office, Stephen Kinnock, and the interrogation of other employees.Britain angrily lodged an immediate diplomatic protest today, summoning Russia's ambassador to London, Yury Fedotov, for an urgent meeting at the Foreign Office.Russian police detained Kinnock at 11.30pm last night when he was driving in the city. They claimed he had a \"heavy smell of alcohol on his breath\", and had violated traffic rules. Officials held him for an hour and then released him.This morning, the British Council denied that Kinnock had been drunk, saying he appeared to be the victim of a sinister pattern of state-backed intimidation and deliberate harassment against council staff.Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) - the successor agency to the KGB - yesterday summoned all members of staff working for the British Council's two remaining regional offices, in St Petersburg and Yekaterinburg, the council said.The employees were told to report to the FSB's headquarters. Late last night, officers from Russia's ministry of interior visited the private homes and flats of all the British Council's regional Russian employees, the council revealed.The council in St Petersburg also announced this morning that it had temporarily suspended work amid the unprecedented campaign against its British and Russian employees.In a statement this morning, the council said: \"Our main concern is for the safety and security of both our Russian and UK staff. We are deeply concerned by these incidents.\"It added: 'We can confirm that last night Stephen Kinnock, Director St Petersburg, was followed, stopped and subsequently released an hour later by Russian authorities.'We can also confirm that our Russian national staff, in both St Petersburg and Yekaterinburg, were yesterday summoned for interview by the FSB at their headquarters and subsequently visited in their homes late last night by officials of the Russian ministry of interior.\"The arrest of Stephen Kinnock - the son of the former Labour leader Neil Kinnock - on apparently trumped-up charges is likely to infuriate the British government and lead to a further escalation in the deepening row between London and Moscow.The Kremlin ordered the British Council to shut its two regional offices last month, saying the move was a response to Britain's decision last July to expel four Russian diplomats in connection with the murder in London of the Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko.Britain refused to obey. On Monday, the British Council reopened its St Petersburg office after the Christmas and New Year break. The council insisted its work in Russia was legal and governed by a 1994 bilateral agreement.Russia hit back by saying it would now refuse to give or renew visas for the British Council's regional staff. Yesterday, pro-Kremlin politicians and former KGB generals also denounced Britain's move, calling for further punitive action.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov - whose own daughter was educated at the London School of Economics - also waded into the row, accusing Britain of \"colonial\" thinking and \"nostalgia for empire\".", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia detains British Council director"},{"date": "2008-03-04T12:45:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian president Vladimir Putin and his successor Dmitry Medvedev in Red Square in Moscow. Photograph: Vladimir Rodionov/EPADmitry Medvedev celebrated his victory in the Russian presidential election with a rock concert in Red Square, Moscow. I have not yet seen transcripts of his speech, but I think I could guess at a few phrases. Perhaps, \"For those about to rock, we salute you\" (AC/DC), accompained by a devil's horn salute. Or maybe, \"You are my people, you are my crowd, this is our music, we love it loud\" (Kiss), followed by a lewd tongue waggle.President Medvedev is a rocker, a roller, a right out-of-controller. At least, he is in his publicity materials, boasting of his hard rocking ways to counter his image as a backroom lawyer, author of a textbook on the Civil Code. Medvedev loves Zep, the Sabs and, especially, Deep Purple. He announced his candidacy by recounting how he collected the original vinyl copies of every Deep Purple record; which strikes me as just the kind of nerdy completism one would expect from a backroom lawyer-type.Medvedev may yet turn Russia into a new Wayne's World, putting the par-tee into Putin's United Russia party. But his fealty to the royalty of British rock was widespread in Russian universities in the 1980s. My wife is a contemporary, attending Moscow State University at the same time Medvedev was at Leningrad State University. She recalls the student dorms echoing to rock, especially the holy triumvirate of Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple and Black Sabbath (though my wife continues to have a soft spot for Nazareth).It is easy to see why Russians love British rock. Deep Purple are the musos, with keyboard player Jon Lord's showy references to Russian composer Rimsky-Korsakov. Black Sabbath are more meaty, or meat-headed, but have the chundering riffs, like the Red Army crossing the Rhine. Led Zeppelin have a pastoral edge, the perfect accompaniment to a summer evening at the dacha among the silver birches.Given Russia's love for this music, could it have affected the course of history? Were Gorbachev and his team influenced by the young comrades in the universities? Could Ozzie Osbourne, Ian Gillan and Robert Plant have contributed to the end of the Cold War?Ozzie's sharp insight that \"Generals gather in their masses/Just like witches at black masses\", is a powerful argument for an intercontinental ballistic missile treaty, like the one Gorbachev brokered in Reykjavik with Reagan. Led Zeppelin's infectious love of freedom (\"Baby, I don't want to leave you/But when the summer comes around I gotta to ramble\") leads inevitably to Glasnost.What could Deep Purple have contributed? Gillan looks a little like a Russian Orthodox Priest, but so do most members of outlaw motorcycle gangs. Jon Lord's classically trained fingers may have persuaded Russians that it was possible to embrace the new without abandoning the old. But I suspect it was middle-period Deep Purple that proved decisive: the Coverdale years. Once you have heard the double entendres that characterise the songs of David Coverdale, showcased on the album Come Taste the Band, dialectical materialism simply loses its savour.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Medvedev rocks Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-23T13:11:06Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The most talked-about and highly anticipated exhibition of recent months, the Royal Academy's From Russia exhibition has finally arrived in London. Diplomatic row aside, the show has been dogged by controversy even up to its glamorous preview opening, with descendants of the Russian tsarist-era collectors seeking compensation for their lost art. All  \u00a33bn of it.Politics has inevitably seeped into today's reviews. The Independent's Tom Lubbuck reminds us that Alexander Litvinenko was \"irradiated more or less opposite the Royal Academy, which brings the issue into nice proximity\". The blockbuster wasn't worth the diplomatic sacrifice, he writes, and sometimes there is a price to pay for art - and he's not talking about the \u00a311 entry fee.Lubbock attacks the exhibition in two rounds: once surveying the curious and unfamiliar, and then taking the time to stop at the \"impressive and transfixing\" Matisses. After assessing that \"there is a mixture of the terrible, the dull, the interesting, the good and the great\", Lubbock refers to his own critique as the kind of \"snotty, judgemental thing that critics are always saying\". You cannot rank these paintings like \"top dogs and prize marrows,\" he says: sometimes you come across a work and fall under its spell.The Guardian's art critic Adrian Searle is not so intoxicated. There's no doubt the show is a splendid collection of masterpieces from the Russian state museums at the time of the 1917 revolution, but \"who wants one damn masterpiece after another?\", he asks.Searle calls the show a \"great, ghastly, revolutionary and hilarious\" ride, while the fluid figures in Matisse's The Dance - billed as the star of the show, ubiquitous on posters around London and hailed as \"the most beautiful modern painting in the world\" by the Guardian's Jonathan Jones - reminds Searle of \"cavorting prawns\". No matter, the show \"is worth braving the crowds\", he reckons.Barely a sentence in and the Telegraph's Richard Dorment practically elbows readers to the front of the queue: \"Book your ticket right now,\" he exhorts. Dorment wends his way around the show's \"stupendous\" paintings, before the quality of the works takes a momentary \"nosedive\" in the room dedicated to the cubo-futurists. Luckily, \"something magical happens in the last room\" of 20th-century pioneers, Kandinsky and Malevich, and Dorment's sense of wonder is restored.Meanwhile, The Times's Rachel Campbell-Johnston declares it a \"pretty spectacular\" exhibition worth fighting for, with its \"rich mixture of treasures\" bound to cause a bottleneck in the opening galleries. She identifies the Russian painters' fierce pride and their pioneering, avante-garde art. \"The art of diplomacy does not have to be anodyne\", she concludes.", "tags": ["Art", "Culture", "Art and design"], "title": "Reviews roundup: what critics thought of the From Russia exhibition at the Royal Academy"},{"date": "2008-01-10T12:15:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A blockbuster exhibition of paintings from Moscow and St Petersburg will go ahead as planned after Russian authorities confirmed the loans had been approved. The Royal Academy show, From Russia: French and Russian Master Paintings 1870-1925, will now go ahead in London on January 26 2008.Doubt was cast after Russia withdrew permission for the loan of the masterpieces for the exhibition fearing legal action from descendants claiming ownership of the paintings. Permission was eventually granted after \"maximum possible assurances\" were given from the British government and new legislation was fast-tracked to protect art from seizure.The Royal Academy received official notification yesterday from Mikhail Shvydkoi, director of the Russian federal agency for culture and cinematography, approving the loans. Shvydkoi said: \"Having consulted with colleagues from the ministry of foreign affairs, we have come to the conclusion that, having received the maximum possible assurance of the British government, there is therefore every reason to permit the holding of such exhibition in the designated time frame - from January 26 to April 18 2008.\"Charles Saumarez Smith, the chief executive of the Royal Academy, said that the body was \"absolutely delighted\". He praised the \"enormous help and close collaboration\" from the department for culture, media and sport, the federal agency for culture and cinematography, the Russian embassy in London and the British embassy in Moscow as well as the four Russian state museums. \"We are grateful to them all,\" he said.A diplomatic spat between Russia and the UK ensued in the aftermath of the murder of former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko in London, but both governments denied this was a factor. The frosty relations saw the British Council, a non-political body that acts as a cultural department for the British embassy, ordered to shut down virtually its entire operation. Russia previously said that it would issue licences for the paintings, which include works by Renoir, Cezanne, Van Gogh and Picasso, to go to the Royal Academy once the legislation was implemented. But officials stressed that \"the law must ensure the art's immunity from seizure\".The new legislation is Part 6 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007, which received royal assent in July 2007. Part 6 of the act means descendants of the original owners cannot bring their claims on British soil. The legislation is intended to ensure that cultural objects can be loaned for exhibition in the UK without fear that they may be subject to seizure or forfeiture and brings Britain in line with the rest of Europe.The exhibition attracted more than 200,000 visitors in D\u00fcsseldorf, Germany, where it had been on show before it transfers to London.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "Russia approves Academy show"},{"date": "2008-02-15T00:27:21Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin said yesterday that Russia was not interested in a return to the cold war. We are all glad to hear it, but it was the Russian president himself who let this particular hare out of the trap. A year ago, at a security conference in Munich, he accused the US of trying to dominate the world \"with no restraint - a hyper-inflated use of force\". Two months later, at a Victory Day parade in Moscow, Mr Putin said the world faced a threat to peace similar to that posed by the Third Reich. If Mr Putin is now saying that Russia will work \"towards the construction of a positive dialogue\" with whomever becomes the next US president, that is a change in tone we should welcome.But nothing is that simple. In his last annual press conference before leaving the Kremlin, Mr Putin restated his opposition to the Pentagon's plans to install missile-defence systems in central Europe. He said Russia would be forced to re-target its missiles on Poland and the Czech Republic, where the missile battery and radar station would be based, if the project went ahead. Russia's deputy foreign minister, Sergei Kislyak, delivered the same message when he went to Warsaw last month. Yesterday Mr Putin added the rider that Russia would only re-target its warheads in \"extreme necessity\".There are two main reasons why the west should not be led down the garden path by those who argue that the KGB is back in control, that Russia has returned to the mindset of the Soviet Union and that we do indeed face a new cold war. First, it is not true. Vladimir Putin's Russia is nothing like Yuri Andropov's Soviet Union. Russia is capitalist. Its armed forces have a fraction of the global reach and power of its Soviet predecessor's. Its military-industrial complex is a pale shadow of America's. Russia does not have a competing ideology; in fact it has little ideology at all. If any country competes for natural resources in Africa or Latin America, it is China, not Russia.Second, Russia is not the same place internally. None of this is to deny the murder of journalists and political opponents, rigged elections or the existence of political prisoners. In today's authoritarian Russia there are all three. Yet, qualitatively and quantitatively, it is a different place. The Kremlin does not have the control it once had over the minds of millions of its citizens. As Mr Putin says, Russia is primarily interested in enriching itself and protecting its interests. It may have difficulty defining those interests, let alone achieving them. Russian diplomacy often feels like a contradiction in terms. It may threaten to cut off gas supplies and bully its neighbours with trade boycotts. But Russia is not a natural enemy, unless the west reacts in a way which makes it one again.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Leader: Russia"},{"date": "2008-01-16T18:53:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The council this morning said it was \"deeply concerned\" for the safety of its British and Russian staff in Russia after the detention last night of the director of its St Petersburg office, Stephen Kinnock, and the interrogation of other employees.Britain angrily lodged an immediate diplomatic protest today, summoning Russia's ambassador to London, Yury Fedotov, for an urgent meeting at the Foreign Office.Russian police detained Kinnock at 11.30pm last night when he was driving in the city. They claimed he had a \"heavy smell of alcohol on his breath\", and had violated traffic rules. Officials held him for an hour and then released him.This morning, the British Council denied that Kinnock had been drunk, saying he appeared to be the victim of a sinister pattern of state-backed intimidation and deliberate harassment against council staff.Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) - the successor agency to the KGB - yesterday summoned all members of staff working for the British Council's two remaining regional offices, in St Petersburg and Yekaterinburg, the council said.The employees were told to report to the FSB's headquarters. Late last night, officers from Russia's ministry of interior visited the private homes and flats of all the British Council's regional Russian employees, the council revealed.The council in St Petersburg also announced this morning that it had temporarily suspended work amid the unprecedented campaign against its British and Russian employees.In a statement this morning, the council said: \"Our main concern is for the safety and security of both our Russian and UK staff. We are deeply concerned by these incidents.\"It added: 'We can confirm that last night Stephen Kinnock, Director St Petersburg, was followed, stopped and subsequently released an hour later by Russian authorities.'We can also confirm that our Russian national staff, in both St Petersburg and Yekaterinburg, were yesterday summoned for interview by the FSB at their headquarters and subsequently visited in their homes late last night by officials of the Russian ministry of interior.\"The arrest of Stephen Kinnock - the son of the former Labour leader Neil Kinnock - on apparently trumped-up charges is likely to infuriate the British government and lead to a further escalation in the deepening row between London and Moscow.The Kremlin ordered the British Council to shut its two regional offices last month, saying the move was a response to Britain's decision last July to expel four Russian diplomats in connection with the murder in London of the Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko.Britain refused to obey. On Monday, the British Council reopened its St Petersburg office after the Christmas and New Year break. The council insisted its work in Russia was legal and governed by a 1994 bilateral agreement.Russia hit back by saying it would now refuse to give or renew visas for the British Council's regional staff. Yesterday, pro-Kremlin politicians and former KGB generals also denounced Britain's move, calling for further punitive action.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov - whose own daughter was educated at the London School of Economics - also waded into the row, accusing Britain of \"colonial\" thinking and \"nostalgia for empire\".", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia detains British Council director"},{"date": "2008-03-03T00:06:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Dmitry Medvedev begins his tenure as president of Russia in very unpromising circumstances. Far from taking office with a strong and legitimate mandate, the manner of his election confirms Russia's retreat from open democratic standards. Opposition candidates were excluded from the ballot paper, there was heavy state-media bias in his favour and the machinery of government was used to campaign on his behalf. Restrictions placed on international observers were so tight that election monitors from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe refused to take part.The new president should strive to rebuild Russia's international reputation, which has been damaged by recent signs of authoritarian and nationalist policies. At a minimum, this must include respect for Russia's international obligations. The Russian government's actions against the British Council violate the Vienna conventions, but that is only the most recent example of its disregard for international law. Russia is clearly not in compliance with the democracy and human-rights obligations of the OSCE and Council of Europe. It is also violating its legally binding commitments as a signatory of the energy charter treaty by expropriating investments and using gas supplies as an instrument of coercive diplomacy.Now is the right time for the EU to address this problem head-on. Russia is currently campaigning to join the World Trade Organisation and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Russian eligibility should depend on tangible evidence of acceptance of the rigours of rules-based agreements. The EU should also insert some competition rules in any free-trade agreements with Russia. It is a test of EU resolve. Ian Taylor MP Con, Esher and Walton Bruce George MP, Lab, Walsall South Danny Alexander MP, Lib Dem, Inverness, Nairn, Badenoch and Strathspey Timothy Garton Ash (Comment, February 28) urges us to spell out to Moscow the terms of closer western engagement with Russia: more respect for the sovereignty of neighbouring states, for human rights and for the rule of law. But since Britain has failed to respect Serbia's sovereignty by colluding in the illegal amputation of part of its territory (Kosovo); failed to respect human rights by introducing a mass of illiberal anti-terror legislation that includes detention or virtual house arrest for people neither charged with nor convicted of any offence, and permitting UK sovereign territory to be used for illegal rendition flights; and failed to respect the rule of law by participating in attacks on Yugoslavia (1999) and Iraq (2003) without UN authority and in breach of the UN charter, wagging our fingers at Moscow in the way suggested might invite an embarrassing retort. Brian BarderLondon", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Letters: Russia and  the rule of law"},{"date": "2008-06-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "This week the EU will hold its first summit with Russia since Dmitri Medvedev replaced Vladimir Putin as president. The meeting presents European leaders with a much-needed opportunity to set a new tone in their relationship with Moscow.  Russia's international prominence resurged under Putin, but atrocities in Chechnya continued and Putin also rolled back many key civic gains of the glasnost era by stifling independent voices in the media and civil society. But with the vision of cold winters without Russian gas never far from European leaders' minds, and Putin increasingly petulant at any criticism, the EU began to soft-pedal the union's core values, labouring under the misperception that talk about human rights would jeopardise Europe's energy and security interests. Russia's choice of holding the summit in Khanty Mansiysk, an oil-rich region in Siberia, may be a not-to-subtle reminder of Russia's economic clout. But the EU and Russia are increasingly interdependent and Russia needs to sell its gas to Europe as much as Europe needs to buy it.  Under Putin, the EU acquiesced in downgrading talk about human rights from the summits to twice-yearly low-level human rights consultations. The next such consultation, in October, will not even include an item on the North Caucasus \u2013 where impunity in Chechnya could have been discussed. Medvedev has spoken out on the need for the rule of law, anti-corruption measures, and a vibrant civil society Even though Medvedev's political independence from his mentor, and now prime minister, Putin, remains unclear, the summit presents a window of opportunity because, well, Putin won't be there. The summit is Medvedev's show. It is a chance for leaders to do what they do when the meet face-to-face: build relationships and trust, discuss issues of shared importance and maybe even build consensus.  The urgency of the issues is undeniable. In 34 rulings, the European court of human rights has consistently found Russia responsible for torture, \"disappearances,\" and extrajudicial executions in Chechnya. While Russia has generally paid out compensation to victims, it has defied the courts' orders to carry out meaningful investigations or to address the underlying causes of abuse. The EU should say to Medvedev, as a friend, that compliance with the courts' rulings could show to both domestic and foreign audiences that Medvedev is his own man and is serious about promoting what Putin once called the \"dictatorship of the law\" instead of just dictatorship. The EU should urge Medvedev's to stop government intrusion into NGO work, and selective implementation of laws and regulations to harass organisations that work on controversial issues such as election monitoring and human rights. As an example, authorities in Samara recently subjected Golos, a voters' rights organisation, to a series of intrusive and harassing inspections. The organisation's director was required to undergo drug-testing and a psychological evaluation, and its office shut for three months, ostensibly for fire code violations. Many other groups spend inordinate time and money challenging government warnings and on needless bureaucracy.  The EU is the world's leading collection of democracies, founded on a commitment to liberty and the rule of law. Because Russia is a key neighbour and partner, Russia's respect for these principles are critical to a sound relationship. A democratic and open Russia on the EU's border makes sense both ethically and economically.", "tags": ["Russia", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Allison Gill: The EU should press Dmitri Medvedev on the rule of law"},{"date": "2008-06-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "This week the EU will hold its first summit with Russia since Dmitri Medvedev replaced Vladimir Putin as president. The meeting presents European leaders with a much-needed opportunity to set a new tone in their relationship with Moscow.  Russia's international prominence resurged under Putin, but atrocities in Chechnya continued and Putin also rolled back many key civic gains of the glasnost era by stifling independent voices in the media and civil society. But with the vision of cold winters without Russian gas never far from European leaders' minds, and Putin increasingly petulant at any criticism, the EU began to soft-pedal the union's core values, labouring under the misperception that talk about human rights would jeopardise Europe's energy and security interests. Russia's choice of holding the summit in Khanty Mansiysk, an oil-rich region in Siberia, may be a not-to-subtle reminder of Russia's economic clout. But the EU and Russia are increasingly interdependent and Russia needs to sell its gas to Europe as much as Europe needs to buy it.  Under Putin, the EU acquiesced in downgrading talk about human rights from the summits to twice-yearly low-level human rights consultations. The next such consultation, in October, will not even include an item on the North Caucasus \u2013 where impunity in Chechnya could have been discussed. Medvedev has spoken out on the need for the rule of law, anti-corruption measures, and a vibrant civil society Even though Medvedev's political independence from his mentor, and now prime minister, Putin, remains unclear, the summit presents a window of opportunity because, well, Putin won't be there. The summit is Medvedev's show. It is a chance for leaders to do what they do when the meet face-to-face: build relationships and trust, discuss issues of shared importance and maybe even build consensus.  The urgency of the issues is undeniable. In 34 rulings, the European court of human rights has consistently found Russia responsible for torture, \"disappearances,\" and extrajudicial executions in Chechnya. While Russia has generally paid out compensation to victims, it has defied the courts' orders to carry out meaningful investigations or to address the underlying causes of abuse. The EU should say to Medvedev, as a friend, that compliance with the courts' rulings could show to both domestic and foreign audiences that Medvedev is his own man and is serious about promoting what Putin once called the \"dictatorship of the law\" instead of just dictatorship. The EU should urge Medvedev's to stop government intrusion into NGO work, and selective implementation of laws and regulations to harass organisations that work on controversial issues such as election monitoring and human rights. As an example, authorities in Samara recently subjected Golos, a voters' rights organisation, to a series of intrusive and harassing inspections. The organisation's director was required to undergo drug-testing and a psychological evaluation, and its office shut for three months, ostensibly for fire code violations. Many other groups spend inordinate time and money challenging government warnings and on needless bureaucracy.  The EU is the world's leading collection of democracies, founded on a commitment to liberty and the rule of law. Because Russia is a key neighbour and partner, Russia's respect for these principles are critical to a sound relationship. A democratic and open Russia on the EU's border makes sense both ethically and economically.", "tags": ["Russia", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Allison Gill: The EU should press Dmitri Medvedev on the rule of law"},{"date": "2008-04-20T10:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ahead of last month's presidential election in Russia there was widespread suspicion that the poll was fixed in advance. Several days before the vote, insiders were even able to give accurate figures for just how big a share of the vote Dmitry Medvedev would win.Privately, even the Kremlin's most ardent supporters conceded that the presidential election - like December's parliamentary elections in Russia - would see widespread use of \"administrative resources\", or put more simply, fraud. Now there appears to be proof.On Monday, the physicist and computer expert Sergei Shpilkin posted his analysis of the official results taken from the website of Russia's central elections committee. As reported by the Moscow Times, Shpilkin found some strange anamolies. A disproportionate number of polling stations returned round numbers - numbers ending in a zero or a five - for both voter turnout and Medvedev's percentage share.In a normal election, the distribution of voting is shaped like a bell curve, with the median and most popular value at the top. In Russia's election the distribution was normal until the figures reached 60%. After that, however, the curve resembled - as the Moscow Times put it - \"shark's teeth\" - with spikes on multiples of five.In other words, local election officials had been told in advance what percentages to \"deliver\" for Medvedev, and for how many people needed to \"vote\". In some places this blatant ballot-rigging appears to have backfired: at a polling station in the Dagestani town of Kizilyurt, for example, 766 people \"voted\", but not one of them voted for Medvedev.Instead, 95% of residents were said to have voted for Andrey Bogdanov - a pro-Kremlin independent who polled a miserable 1.3% of the vote nationally, compared with 70.3% for Medvedev, Vladimir Putin's handpicked successor. Apparently, gormless local election workers stuffed the wrong ballot papers into the box.All of this confirms that fraudulent elections have now become an established part of Russian political life - in the words of the Soviet dissident Sergei Kovalev, who wrote an open letter to Vladimir Putin just before the March 2 poll, \"a tasteless farce played out by untalented directors on the entire boundless Russian stage\".Putin, meanwhile, who steps down as president on May 7, has done his best to cover up such shenanigans. In December's parliamentary elections, 99% of Chechens voted for Putin's United Russia party, with turnout in Chechnya also put at an astonishing 99%. Asked by a journalist from Le Figaro about these curious results, Putin described them as \"perfectly objective\".According to Shpilkin, an election analyst at the Institute for Applied Economics, only 56% of Russians actually voted last month - compared to the official Kremlin figure of 69.7%. Additionally, 14.8m out of the 52.5m votes cast for Medvedev were bogus, meaning that Medvedev's real support from Russia's 100-million strong electorate is around one-third - not the massive mandate the Kremlin likes to claim.Given that, who can blame Medvedev for feeling slightly anxious when he takes over next month as Russia's third post-Soviet leader. It seems that the real power will continue to reside with Vladimir Putin, who becomes prime minister, swapping the Kremlin for Moscow's White House, and who earlier this week took over as chairman of United Russia, the dominant party.Medvedev's election victory was clearly much smaller than claimed - despite his endorsement by Putin, and despite relentless and favourable coverage from Kremlin-controlled television. Given that he was going to win anyway, one wonders why the Kremlin went to so much trouble to manicure his victory.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "From Russia with fraud"},{"date": "2008-06-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "This week the EU will hold its first summit with Russia since Dmitri Medvedev replaced Vladimir Putin as president. The meeting presents European leaders with a much-needed opportunity to set a new tone in their relationship with Moscow.  Russia's international prominence resurged under Putin, but atrocities in Chechnya continued and Putin also rolled back many key civic gains of the glasnost era by stifling independent voices in the media and civil society. But with the vision of cold winters without Russian gas never far from European leaders' minds, and Putin increasingly petulant at any criticism, the EU began to soft-pedal the union's core values, labouring under the misperception that talk about human rights would jeopardise Europe's energy and security interests. Russia's choice of holding the summit in Khanty Mansiysk, an oil-rich region in Siberia, may be a not-to-subtle reminder of Russia's economic clout. But the EU and Russia are increasingly interdependent and Russia needs to sell its gas to Europe as much as Europe needs to buy it.  Under Putin, the EU acquiesced in downgrading talk about human rights from the summits to twice-yearly low-level human rights consultations. The next such consultation, in October, will not even include an item on the North Caucasus \u2013 where impunity in Chechnya could have been discussed. Medvedev has spoken out on the need for the rule of law, anti-corruption measures, and a vibrant civil society Even though Medvedev's political independence from his mentor, and now prime minister, Putin, remains unclear, the summit presents a window of opportunity because, well, Putin won't be there. The summit is Medvedev's show. It is a chance for leaders to do what they do when the meet face-to-face: build relationships and trust, discuss issues of shared importance and maybe even build consensus.  The urgency of the issues is undeniable. In 34 rulings, the European court of human rights has consistently found Russia responsible for torture, \"disappearances,\" and extrajudicial executions in Chechnya. While Russia has generally paid out compensation to victims, it has defied the courts' orders to carry out meaningful investigations or to address the underlying causes of abuse. The EU should say to Medvedev, as a friend, that compliance with the courts' rulings could show to both domestic and foreign audiences that Medvedev is his own man and is serious about promoting what Putin once called the \"dictatorship of the law\" instead of just dictatorship. The EU should urge Medvedev's to stop government intrusion into NGO work, and selective implementation of laws and regulations to harass organisations that work on controversial issues such as election monitoring and human rights. As an example, authorities in Samara recently subjected Golos, a voters' rights organisation, to a series of intrusive and harassing inspections. The organisation's director was required to undergo drug-testing and a psychological evaluation, and its office shut for three months, ostensibly for fire code violations. Many other groups spend inordinate time and money challenging government warnings and on needless bureaucracy.  The EU is the world's leading collection of democracies, founded on a commitment to liberty and the rule of law. Because Russia is a key neighbour and partner, Russia's respect for these principles are critical to a sound relationship. A democratic and open Russia on the EU's border makes sense both ethically and economically.", "tags": ["Russia", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Allison Gill: The EU should press Dmitri Medvedev on the rule of law"},{"date": "2008-04-20T10:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ahead of last month's presidential election in Russia there was widespread suspicion that the poll was fixed in advance. Several days before the vote, insiders were even able to give accurate figures for just how big a share of the vote Dmitry Medvedev would win.Privately, even the Kremlin's most ardent supporters conceded that the presidential election - like December's parliamentary elections in Russia - would see widespread use of \"administrative resources\", or put more simply, fraud. Now there appears to be proof.On Monday, the physicist and computer expert Sergei Shpilkin posted his analysis of the official results taken from the website of Russia's central elections committee. As reported by the Moscow Times, Shpilkin found some strange anamolies. A disproportionate number of polling stations returned round numbers - numbers ending in a zero or a five - for both voter turnout and Medvedev's percentage share.In a normal election, the distribution of voting is shaped like a bell curve, with the median and most popular value at the top. In Russia's election the distribution was normal until the figures reached 60%. After that, however, the curve resembled - as the Moscow Times put it - \"shark's teeth\" - with spikes on multiples of five.In other words, local election officials had been told in advance what percentages to \"deliver\" for Medvedev, and for how many people needed to \"vote\". In some places this blatant ballot-rigging appears to have backfired: at a polling station in the Dagestani town of Kizilyurt, for example, 766 people \"voted\", but not one of them voted for Medvedev.Instead, 95% of residents were said to have voted for Andrey Bogdanov - a pro-Kremlin independent who polled a miserable 1.3% of the vote nationally, compared with 70.3% for Medvedev, Vladimir Putin's handpicked successor. Apparently, gormless local election workers stuffed the wrong ballot papers into the box.All of this confirms that fraudulent elections have now become an established part of Russian political life - in the words of the Soviet dissident Sergei Kovalev, who wrote an open letter to Vladimir Putin just before the March 2 poll, \"a tasteless farce played out by untalented directors on the entire boundless Russian stage\".Putin, meanwhile, who steps down as president on May 7, has done his best to cover up such shenanigans. In December's parliamentary elections, 99% of Chechens voted for Putin's United Russia party, with turnout in Chechnya also put at an astonishing 99%. Asked by a journalist from Le Figaro about these curious results, Putin described them as \"perfectly objective\".According to Shpilkin, an election analyst at the Institute for Applied Economics, only 56% of Russians actually voted last month - compared to the official Kremlin figure of 69.7%. Additionally, 14.8m out of the 52.5m votes cast for Medvedev were bogus, meaning that Medvedev's real support from Russia's 100-million strong electorate is around one-third - not the massive mandate the Kremlin likes to claim.Given that, who can blame Medvedev for feeling slightly anxious when he takes over next month as Russia's third post-Soviet leader. It seems that the real power will continue to reside with Vladimir Putin, who becomes prime minister, swapping the Kremlin for Moscow's White House, and who earlier this week took over as chairman of United Russia, the dominant party.Medvedev's election victory was clearly much smaller than claimed - despite his endorsement by Putin, and despite relentless and favourable coverage from Kremlin-controlled television. Given that he was going to win anyway, one wonders why the Kremlin went to so much trouble to manicure his victory.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "From Russia with fraud"},{"date": "2008-06-26T12:09:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The EU today began negotiations with Russia over an ambitious new strategic pact designed to rebuild relations between Europe and Russia following years of tension.The EU wants to reach a deal with the Kremlin's new leadership on a wide-ranging and legally binding cooperation agreement. But negotiations, which start later today in the booming Siberian oil town of Khanty-Mansiysk, could drag on for years, analysts predict. The Russians favour a short and concise format, while the EU is insisting on a far more comprehensive pact, which lays out concrete details of cooperation in key areas including energy, justice and security. Brussels will hope that Russia's new president, Dmitry Medvedev, adopts a more conciliatory tone than his predecessor Vladmir Putin. The summit marks Medvedev's international debut. Prime Minister Putin will not attend, Russian officials said.Fyodor Lukyanov, editor-in-chief of Russia in Global Affairs, said that Putin's absence is likely to make negotiations much easier. \"Medvedev won't use the same ugly metaphors that Putin did. This isn't insignificant,\" he said.Russia, however, was less enthusiastic about rebuilding its troubled relations with the EU, he suggested. \"The situation has changed significantly since 2006. Back then Putin was eager to start negotiations before he left office. Now the Russian side has lost interest a lot,\" he said.Negotiations on a new partnership deal have been delayed by a series of bruising bilateral rows between Russia and its EU neighbours. There has also been confusion and disarray among the EU's 27 members over how to deal with a resurgent Russia.The 10-year-old EU-Russia \"partnership and cooperation agreement\" ran out last year. Poland vetoed negotiations following a Russian ban on its meat exports. Lithuania then blocked talks following Russia's refusal to fix an oil pipeline, which was allegedly broken. EU foreign ministers finally agreed a negotiating mandate last month.Britain, meanwhile, wants to include a protocol on Russia's refusal to extradite Andrei Lugovoi - the former KGB agent accused of murdering Alexander Litvinenko in London 18 months ago. Russia is likely to look unfavourably on any fresh extradition request. There are also several other major areas of disagreement, analysts say. The EU wants Russia to ratify the union's energy charter, which would give European energy producers access to Russia's pipelines. Russia has refused and in turn accused the EU of barring access to European markets. The choice of today's summit venue is highly symbolic - reminding the EU of its continuing dependence on Russia's vast energy reserves. The Khanty-Mansiysk region, some 1,500 miles east of Moscow, in western Siberia, produces almost two-thirds of the country's oil. It is known as Russia's Kuwait.Today the town had a festive summer atmosphere, with a giant screen erected ahead of Russia's Euro-2008 semi-final against Spain tonight. The centre has been decorated with EU and Russian flags - together with the mistranslated slogan The Pulse of Cooperation. Gleaming new office blocks have sprung up here against a traditional Siberian landscape of endless green fields and silver birches.\"With the oil price sky-rocketing Russia seems to have the EU over a barrel. But it isn't quite as simple as that,\" one western diplomat said. He added: \"We have something they [the Russians] want - a market. The oil isn't any use to them stuck in the ground.\"British officials are optimistic that the UK's relations with Russia can be improved - or \"recalibrated\" - during Medvedev's next big international outing at the G8 summit in Japan early next month where Gordon Brown is meeting Medvedev for private talks.It will be the first bilateral meeting between a Russian and British leader since the Litvenenko row. Officials, however, say it is too early to contemplate a visit by Medvedev to London, suggesting \"there is no point in trying to walk before you can crawl\".Medvedev's foreign policy adviser Sergei Prikhodko visited London this week. Asked whether Brown's meeting with Medvedev meant an end to the row between London and Moscow, he said: \"It's a good signal for those who want an improvement in British-Russian relations.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "Russia", "Foreign policy", "World news", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "EU-Russia cooperation talks begin"},{"date": "2008-06-25T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "This week the EU will hold its first summit with Russia since Dmitri Medvedev replaced Vladimir Putin as president. The meeting presents European leaders with a much-needed opportunity to set a new tone in their relationship with Moscow.  Russia's international prominence resurged under Putin, but atrocities in Chechnya continued and Putin also rolled back many key civic gains of the glasnost era by stifling independent voices in the media and civil society. But with the vision of cold winters without Russian gas never far from European leaders' minds, and Putin increasingly petulant at any criticism, the EU began to soft-pedal the union's core values, labouring under the misperception that talk about human rights would jeopardise Europe's energy and security interests. Russia's choice of holding the summit in Khanty Mansiysk, an oil-rich region in Siberia, may be a not-to-subtle reminder of Russia's economic clout. But the EU and Russia are increasingly interdependent and Russia needs to sell its gas to Europe as much as Europe needs to buy it.  Under Putin, the EU acquiesced in downgrading talk about human rights from the summits to twice-yearly low-level human rights consultations. The next such consultation, in October, will not even include an item on the North Caucasus \u2013 where impunity in Chechnya could have been discussed. Medvedev has spoken out on the need for the rule of law, anti-corruption measures, and a vibrant civil society Even though Medvedev's political independence from his mentor, and now prime minister, Putin, remains unclear, the summit presents a window of opportunity because, well, Putin won't be there. The summit is Medvedev's show. It is a chance for leaders to do what they do when the meet face-to-face: build relationships and trust, discuss issues of shared importance and maybe even build consensus.  The urgency of the issues is undeniable. In 34 rulings, the European court of human rights has consistently found Russia responsible for torture, \"disappearances,\" and extrajudicial executions in Chechnya. While Russia has generally paid out compensation to victims, it has defied the courts' orders to carry out meaningful investigations or to address the underlying causes of abuse. The EU should say to Medvedev, as a friend, that compliance with the courts' rulings could show to both domestic and foreign audiences that Medvedev is his own man and is serious about promoting what Putin once called the \"dictatorship of the law\" instead of just dictatorship. The EU should urge Medvedev's to stop government intrusion into NGO work, and selective implementation of laws and regulations to harass organisations that work on controversial issues such as election monitoring and human rights. As an example, authorities in Samara recently subjected Golos, a voters' rights organisation, to a series of intrusive and harassing inspections. The organisation's director was required to undergo drug-testing and a psychological evaluation, and its office shut for three months, ostensibly for fire code violations. Many other groups spend inordinate time and money challenging government warnings and on needless bureaucracy.  The EU is the world's leading collection of democracies, founded on a commitment to liberty and the rule of law. Because Russia is a key neighbour and partner, Russia's respect for these principles are critical to a sound relationship. A democratic and open Russia on the EU's border makes sense both ethically and economically.", "tags": ["Russia", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Allison Gill: The EU should press Dmitri Medvedev on the rule of law"},{"date": "2008-04-20T10:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ahead of last month's presidential election in Russia there was widespread suspicion that the poll was fixed in advance. Several days before the vote, insiders were even able to give accurate figures for just how big a share of the vote Dmitry Medvedev would win.Privately, even the Kremlin's most ardent supporters conceded that the presidential election - like December's parliamentary elections in Russia - would see widespread use of \"administrative resources\", or put more simply, fraud. Now there appears to be proof.On Monday, the physicist and computer expert Sergei Shpilkin posted his analysis of the official results taken from the website of Russia's central elections committee. As reported by the Moscow Times, Shpilkin found some strange anamolies. A disproportionate number of polling stations returned round numbers - numbers ending in a zero or a five - for both voter turnout and Medvedev's percentage share.In a normal election, the distribution of voting is shaped like a bell curve, with the median and most popular value at the top. In Russia's election the distribution was normal until the figures reached 60%. After that, however, the curve resembled - as the Moscow Times put it - \"shark's teeth\" - with spikes on multiples of five.In other words, local election officials had been told in advance what percentages to \"deliver\" for Medvedev, and for how many people needed to \"vote\". In some places this blatant ballot-rigging appears to have backfired: at a polling station in the Dagestani town of Kizilyurt, for example, 766 people \"voted\", but not one of them voted for Medvedev.Instead, 95% of residents were said to have voted for Andrey Bogdanov - a pro-Kremlin independent who polled a miserable 1.3% of the vote nationally, compared with 70.3% for Medvedev, Vladimir Putin's handpicked successor. Apparently, gormless local election workers stuffed the wrong ballot papers into the box.All of this confirms that fraudulent elections have now become an established part of Russian political life - in the words of the Soviet dissident Sergei Kovalev, who wrote an open letter to Vladimir Putin just before the March 2 poll, \"a tasteless farce played out by untalented directors on the entire boundless Russian stage\".Putin, meanwhile, who steps down as president on May 7, has done his best to cover up such shenanigans. In December's parliamentary elections, 99% of Chechens voted for Putin's United Russia party, with turnout in Chechnya also put at an astonishing 99%. Asked by a journalist from Le Figaro about these curious results, Putin described them as \"perfectly objective\".According to Shpilkin, an election analyst at the Institute for Applied Economics, only 56% of Russians actually voted last month - compared to the official Kremlin figure of 69.7%. Additionally, 14.8m out of the 52.5m votes cast for Medvedev were bogus, meaning that Medvedev's real support from Russia's 100-million strong electorate is around one-third - not the massive mandate the Kremlin likes to claim.Given that, who can blame Medvedev for feeling slightly anxious when he takes over next month as Russia's third post-Soviet leader. It seems that the real power will continue to reside with Vladimir Putin, who becomes prime minister, swapping the Kremlin for Moscow's White House, and who earlier this week took over as chairman of United Russia, the dominant party.Medvedev's election victory was clearly much smaller than claimed - despite his endorsement by Putin, and despite relentless and favourable coverage from Kremlin-controlled television. Given that he was going to win anyway, one wonders why the Kremlin went to so much trouble to manicure his victory.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "From Russia with fraud"},{"date": "2008-06-26T12:09:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The EU today began negotiations with Russia over an ambitious new strategic pact designed to rebuild relations between Europe and Russia following years of tension.The EU wants to reach a deal with the Kremlin's new leadership on a wide-ranging and legally binding cooperation agreement. But negotiations, which start later today in the booming Siberian oil town of Khanty-Mansiysk, could drag on for years, analysts predict. The Russians favour a short and concise format, while the EU is insisting on a far more comprehensive pact, which lays out concrete details of cooperation in key areas including energy, justice and security. Brussels will hope that Russia's new president, Dmitry Medvedev, adopts a more conciliatory tone than his predecessor Vladmir Putin. The summit marks Medvedev's international debut. Prime Minister Putin will not attend, Russian officials said.Fyodor Lukyanov, editor-in-chief of Russia in Global Affairs, said that Putin's absence is likely to make negotiations much easier. \"Medvedev won't use the same ugly metaphors that Putin did. This isn't insignificant,\" he said.Russia, however, was less enthusiastic about rebuilding its troubled relations with the EU, he suggested. \"The situation has changed significantly since 2006. Back then Putin was eager to start negotiations before he left office. Now the Russian side has lost interest a lot,\" he said.Negotiations on a new partnership deal have been delayed by a series of bruising bilateral rows between Russia and its EU neighbours. There has also been confusion and disarray among the EU's 27 members over how to deal with a resurgent Russia.The 10-year-old EU-Russia \"partnership and cooperation agreement\" ran out last year. Poland vetoed negotiations following a Russian ban on its meat exports. Lithuania then blocked talks following Russia's refusal to fix an oil pipeline, which was allegedly broken. EU foreign ministers finally agreed a negotiating mandate last month.Britain, meanwhile, wants to include a protocol on Russia's refusal to extradite Andrei Lugovoi - the former KGB agent accused of murdering Alexander Litvinenko in London 18 months ago. Russia is likely to look unfavourably on any fresh extradition request. There are also several other major areas of disagreement, analysts say. The EU wants Russia to ratify the union's energy charter, which would give European energy producers access to Russia's pipelines. Russia has refused and in turn accused the EU of barring access to European markets. The choice of today's summit venue is highly symbolic - reminding the EU of its continuing dependence on Russia's vast energy reserves. The Khanty-Mansiysk region, some 1,500 miles east of Moscow, in western Siberia, produces almost two-thirds of the country's oil. It is known as Russia's Kuwait.Today the town had a festive summer atmosphere, with a giant screen erected ahead of Russia's Euro-2008 semi-final against Spain tonight. The centre has been decorated with EU and Russian flags - together with the mistranslated slogan The Pulse of Cooperation. Gleaming new office blocks have sprung up here against a traditional Siberian landscape of endless green fields and silver birches.\"With the oil price sky-rocketing Russia seems to have the EU over a barrel. But it isn't quite as simple as that,\" one western diplomat said. He added: \"We have something they [the Russians] want - a market. The oil isn't any use to them stuck in the ground.\"British officials are optimistic that the UK's relations with Russia can be improved - or \"recalibrated\" - during Medvedev's next big international outing at the G8 summit in Japan early next month where Gordon Brown is meeting Medvedev for private talks.It will be the first bilateral meeting between a Russian and British leader since the Litvenenko row. Officials, however, say it is too early to contemplate a visit by Medvedev to London, suggesting \"there is no point in trying to walk before you can crawl\".Medvedev's foreign policy adviser Sergei Prikhodko visited London this week. Asked whether Brown's meeting with Medvedev meant an end to the row between London and Moscow, he said: \"It's a good signal for those who want an improvement in British-Russian relations.\"", "tags": ["European Union", "Russia", "Foreign policy", "World news", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "EU-Russia cooperation talks begin"},{"date": "2008-05-23T23:10:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Indiana Jones And The Kingdom Of The Crystal Skull hits our screens this week, we can be sure of one thing: it will be quite unlike any other Indiana Jones movie. After all, no movie franchise has so consistently flipped the narrative script from one episode to the next. And yet, when one looks closely at the oeuvre, one can spot certain motifs, chief among them being that IT'S EXACTLY THE SAME STORYLINE EVERY TIME. In a nutshell, Indy has to go somewhere exotic with a sidekick and swipe some kind of artefact before the Nazis get it. No, you can't accuse George Lucas and Steven Spielberg of skimping on their recycling. Now YOU too can enjoy the thrill of creating your own plot thanks to our Random Plotline Generator! Simply generate a random five-figure number between 00000 and 99,999, match the figures to the entries in the list of five plot-element pools, and you're set! For example, choose 63,824 and Indy is off to Russia, to steal a fancy box from the Nazis, whose leader will die spectacularly. Way to go Indy!1. Irritating sidekick0.  Little squeaking twerp in sideways baseball cap1.  Woman who can't act2.  Fat bloke from Transformers3.  Denholm Elliott, if he's not dead4.  Bloke who plays Gimli in Lord Of The Rings in a comedy fez5.  Woman who is almost certainly in league with the Nazis6.  Adorable helper monkey7.  Bald holy child possessed of other-worldly wisdom8.  Bumbling alcoholic Englishman9. Asian bloke who says \"Goodniss grayshish me doctor Jone!\" a lot2. Swish location0.  Austria in the early 1930s (comedy Hitler cameo mandatory)1.  Cairo2.  Deeply racist beetle-eating version of India3.  Arctic Russia4.  Bangkok, sans the saucy bits5.  Jerusalem6.  Baghdad, allowing scope for war allegory7.  Afghanistan (ditto)8.  The waterways of Venice9. All of the above3. The thing Indy has to find0.  The cross upon which Christ was crucified1.  The nails that were hammered into Christ's hands when he was crucified2.  Christ's pre-crucifixion pauper's bowl3.  Basically, anything to do with Christ dying4.  The tablets upon which Moses wrote the commandments5.  A Da Vinci painting with a code written into it6.  Mayan pre-Christian artefact sent by aliens7.  Pagan statuette that heals all wounds8.  Big fancy box with ghosts in it9. Just a massive box full of gold4. Evil forces that want it0.  The Nazis1.  The Nazis2.  The Nazis3.  The Nazis4.  The Nazis5.  The Russians6.  Opus Dei7.  South Asian cult fond of human sacrifices and beetles8.  The Masons9. The Nazis5. Death of chief bad guy0.  Minced by airplane propeller1.  Exploding Zeppelin lands on head2.  Melted by ghosts3.  Eaten by ghosts4.  Decapitated by a flying metal disc5.  Falls into river of subterranean lava6.  Crushed by sinking ceiling7.  At hands of cult fond of human sacrifices and beetles8.  Tortured to death by Indy unexpectedly9. Eaten by Christ", "tags": ["Culture", "Film"], "title": "It's the Indiana Jones Random Plotline Generator"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's strategy to revise the post-Soviet order in what it calls its \"near abroad\" will be pursued with even more perseverance following its victory over Georgia. Europe should have no illusions about this and should begin to prepare itself. But, as the European Union ponders what to do, cold realism, not hysterical overreaction, is in order.Unfortunately, equating the current situation in the Caucasus with the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 does not attest to this kind of realism. Neither the west nor Nato constitutes the decisive strategic threat facing Russia, which comes from the Islamic south and from the Far East, in particular the emerging superpower, China. Moreover, Russia's strength is in no way comparable to that of the former Soviet Union. Indeed, demographically, Russia is undergoing a dramatic decline. Apart from commodity exports, it has little to offer to the global economy. Notwithstanding booming oil and gas revenues, its infrastructure remains underdeveloped, and successful economic modernisation is a long way off. Likewise, its political and legal system is authoritarian, and its numerous minority problems remain unsolved. As a result, Russia's current challenging of the territorial integrity of Georgia might prove to be a grave error in the not-so-distant future.Given this structural weakness, the idea of a new Cold War is misleading. The Cold War was an endurance race between two similarly strong rivals, the weaker of which eventually had to give up. Russia does not have the capacity to wage another struggle of that type. Nevertheless, as a restored great power, the new Russia will for the time being attempt to ride in the slipstream of other great powers for as long as doing so coincides with its possibilities and interests; it will concentrate on its own sphere of influence and on its role as a global energy power; and it will otherwise make use of its opportunities on a global scale to limit America's power. But it will not be able to seriously challenge the United States \u2013 or looking towards the future, China \u2013 in ways that the Soviet Union once did. It is now clear that in the future, Russia will once again pursue its vital interests with military force \u2013 particularly in its \"near abroad\". But Europe must never accept a renewal of Russian great power politics, which operates according to the idea that might makes right. Indeed, it is here that Russia's renewed confrontation with the west begins, because the new Europe is based on the principle of the inviolability of boundaries, peaceful conflict resolution, and the rule of law, so to forgo this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self-abandonment. Further eastward expansion of Nato, however, will be possible only against fierce Russian resistance. Nor will this kind of policy in any way create more security, because it entails making promises that won't be kept in an emergency \u2013 as we now see in Georgia.For too long, the west has ignored Russia's recovery of strength and was not prepared to accept the consequences. But not only Russia has changed; so has the entire world. America's neo-conservatives have wasted a large part of their country's power and moral authority in an unnecessary war in Iraq, weakening the only global western power. China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Persian Gulf today are the world economy's new growth centers and will soon be centers of power to be reckoned with. In view of these realities, the threat of exclusion from the G8 doesn't really feel earth shattering to Russia. Europe's disunity and impotence underline this image of a West that has partially lost touch with geo-political realities. The response to the return of Russia's imperial great power politics has nothing to do with punishing Russia, and a lot to do with establishing innately Western \u2013 especially European \u2013 positions of power. This requires several measures: \u0095 A new political dynamism vis-\u00e0-vis Turkey to link this country, one crucial for European security, permanently to Europe; \u0095 Putting a stop to Moscow's divide-and-conquer politics by adopting a common EU energy policy; \u0095 Serious initiative for strengthening Europe's defence capabilities; \u0095 A greater EU commitment to Ukraine to safeguard its independence; \u0095 A greater freedom of travel for all the EU's Eastern neighbours. All of this, and much more, is needed to send a clear signal to Russia that Europe is unwilling to stand idly by as it returns to great power politics. Presumably, none of this will happen, and it is precisely such inaction that is, in large part, the cause of Russia's strength and Europe's weakness. At the same time, however, one shouldn't lose sight of the joint interests linking Russia and the west. Cooperative relations should be maintained as far as possible. It is blatantly obvious that for Russia's elites, weakness and cooperation are mutually exclusive. Therefore, whoever wants cooperation with Russia \u2013 which is in Europe's interest \u2013 must be strong. That is the lesson from the violence in the Caucasus that Europe must urgently take to heart. Copyright: Project Syndicate/Institute for Human Sciences, 2008.", "tags": ["Russia", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Joschka Fischer: Realism about Russia"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's strategy to revise the post-Soviet order in what it calls its \"near abroad\" will be pursued with even more perseverance following its victory over Georgia. Europe should have no illusions about this and should begin to prepare itself. But, as the European Union ponders what to do, cold realism, not hysterical overreaction, is in order.Unfortunately, equating the current situation in the Caucasus with the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 does not attest to this kind of realism. Neither the west nor Nato constitutes the decisive strategic threat facing Russia, which comes from the Islamic south and from the Far East, in particular the emerging superpower, China. Moreover, Russia's strength is in no way comparable to that of the former Soviet Union. Indeed, demographically, Russia is undergoing a dramatic decline. Apart from commodity exports, it has little to offer to the global economy. Notwithstanding booming oil and gas revenues, its infrastructure remains underdeveloped, and successful economic modernisation is a long way off. Likewise, its political and legal system is authoritarian, and its numerous minority problems remain unsolved. As a result, Russia's current challenging of the territorial integrity of Georgia might prove to be a grave error in the not-so-distant future.Given this structural weakness, the idea of a new Cold War is misleading. The Cold War was an endurance race between two similarly strong rivals, the weaker of which eventually had to give up. Russia does not have the capacity to wage another struggle of that type. Nevertheless, as a restored great power, the new Russia will for the time being attempt to ride in the slipstream of other great powers for as long as doing so coincides with its possibilities and interests; it will concentrate on its own sphere of influence and on its role as a global energy power; and it will otherwise make use of its opportunities on a global scale to limit America's power. But it will not be able to seriously challenge the United States \u2013 or looking towards the future, China \u2013 in ways that the Soviet Union once did. It is now clear that in the future, Russia will once again pursue its vital interests with military force \u2013 particularly in its \"near abroad\". But Europe must never accept a renewal of Russian great power politics, which operates according to the idea that might makes right. Indeed, it is here that Russia's renewed confrontation with the west begins, because the new Europe is based on the principle of the inviolability of boundaries, peaceful conflict resolution, and the rule of law, so to forgo this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self-abandonment. Further eastward expansion of Nato, however, will be possible only against fierce Russian resistance. Nor will this kind of policy in any way create more security, because it entails making promises that won't be kept in an emergency \u2013 as we now see in Georgia.For too long, the west has ignored Russia's recovery of strength and was not prepared to accept the consequences. But not only Russia has changed; so has the entire world. America's neo-conservatives have wasted a large part of their country's power and moral authority in an unnecessary war in Iraq, weakening the only global western power. China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Persian Gulf today are the world economy's new growth centers and will soon be centers of power to be reckoned with. In view of these realities, the threat of exclusion from the G8 doesn't really feel earth shattering to Russia. Europe's disunity and impotence underline this image of a West that has partially lost touch with geo-political realities. The response to the return of Russia's imperial great power politics has nothing to do with punishing Russia, and a lot to do with establishing innately Western \u2013 especially European \u2013 positions of power. This requires several measures: \u0095 A new political dynamism vis-\u00e0-vis Turkey to link this country, one crucial for European security, permanently to Europe; \u0095 Putting a stop to Moscow's divide-and-conquer politics by adopting a common EU energy policy; \u0095 Serious initiative for strengthening Europe's defence capabilities; \u0095 A greater EU commitment to Ukraine to safeguard its independence; \u0095 A greater freedom of travel for all the EU's Eastern neighbours. All of this, and much more, is needed to send a clear signal to Russia that Europe is unwilling to stand idly by as it returns to great power politics. Presumably, none of this will happen, and it is precisely such inaction that is, in large part, the cause of Russia's strength and Europe's weakness. At the same time, however, one shouldn't lose sight of the joint interests linking Russia and the west. Cooperative relations should be maintained as far as possible. It is blatantly obvious that for Russia's elites, weakness and cooperation are mutually exclusive. Therefore, whoever wants cooperation with Russia \u2013 which is in Europe's interest \u2013 must be strong. That is the lesson from the violence in the Caucasus that Europe must urgently take to heart. Copyright: Project Syndicate/Institute for Human Sciences, 2008.", "tags": ["Russia", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Joschka Fischer: Realism about Russia"},{"date": "2008-08-15T12:33:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Permit me to expand briefly on why I think gratuitously angering Russia is kind of a bad idea.We all know China is about to dominate the world, right? If you asked your average person in the street in either America or Britain to name the world's top three powers, you'd probably get: the United States; China; and third, I think most people would say Russia, but you'd likely hear a few Indias and maybe some other choices.Now consider power in terms of nuclear arsenals. Assuming you haven't checked lately, you may think that by now, China may have about as many nukes as the other great powers.Ahem. Check this out. China has about 400 suspected nuclear warheads. Russia has at least 12,000 (as does the US). Granted, 400 is plenty enough, but the point is that we don't want another situation where the world's two greatest nuclear powers are at each other's throats. That wasn't good for either society, let alone for the Cubans and Congolese and Angolans and Guatemalans and lots of other folks.What we want, instead, is reduction and even, eventually, elimination of all nuclear arsenals. Radical and crazy? It's the official position of well-known Chomsky acolytes Henry Kissinger and George Schultz and Sam Nunn. If the Bush administration leaves office having ratcheted up US-Russia tension, among its other signal triumphs...well, it'll be par for the course, but yet another disaster.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Russia's nuclear arsenal"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's strategy to revise the post-Soviet order in what it calls its \"near abroad\" will be pursued with even more perseverance following its victory over Georgia. Europe should have no illusions about this and should begin to prepare itself. But, as the European Union ponders what to do, cold realism, not hysterical overreaction, is in order.Unfortunately, equating the current situation in the Caucasus with the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 does not attest to this kind of realism. Neither the west nor Nato constitutes the decisive strategic threat facing Russia, which comes from the Islamic south and from the Far East, in particular the emerging superpower, China. Moreover, Russia's strength is in no way comparable to that of the former Soviet Union. Indeed, demographically, Russia is undergoing a dramatic decline. Apart from commodity exports, it has little to offer to the global economy. Notwithstanding booming oil and gas revenues, its infrastructure remains underdeveloped, and successful economic modernisation is a long way off. Likewise, its political and legal system is authoritarian, and its numerous minority problems remain unsolved. As a result, Russia's current challenging of the territorial integrity of Georgia might prove to be a grave error in the not-so-distant future.Given this structural weakness, the idea of a new Cold War is misleading. The Cold War was an endurance race between two similarly strong rivals, the weaker of which eventually had to give up. Russia does not have the capacity to wage another struggle of that type. Nevertheless, as a restored great power, the new Russia will for the time being attempt to ride in the slipstream of other great powers for as long as doing so coincides with its possibilities and interests; it will concentrate on its own sphere of influence and on its role as a global energy power; and it will otherwise make use of its opportunities on a global scale to limit America's power. But it will not be able to seriously challenge the United States \u2013 or looking towards the future, China \u2013 in ways that the Soviet Union once did. It is now clear that in the future, Russia will once again pursue its vital interests with military force \u2013 particularly in its \"near abroad\". But Europe must never accept a renewal of Russian great power politics, which operates according to the idea that might makes right. Indeed, it is here that Russia's renewed confrontation with the west begins, because the new Europe is based on the principle of the inviolability of boundaries, peaceful conflict resolution, and the rule of law, so to forgo this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self-abandonment. Further eastward expansion of Nato, however, will be possible only against fierce Russian resistance. Nor will this kind of policy in any way create more security, because it entails making promises that won't be kept in an emergency \u2013 as we now see in Georgia.For too long, the west has ignored Russia's recovery of strength and was not prepared to accept the consequences. But not only Russia has changed; so has the entire world. America's neo-conservatives have wasted a large part of their country's power and moral authority in an unnecessary war in Iraq, weakening the only global western power. China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Persian Gulf today are the world economy's new growth centers and will soon be centers of power to be reckoned with. In view of these realities, the threat of exclusion from the G8 doesn't really feel earth shattering to Russia. Europe's disunity and impotence underline this image of a West that has partially lost touch with geo-political realities. The response to the return of Russia's imperial great power politics has nothing to do with punishing Russia, and a lot to do with establishing innately Western \u2013 especially European \u2013 positions of power. This requires several measures: \u0095 A new political dynamism vis-\u00e0-vis Turkey to link this country, one crucial for European security, permanently to Europe; \u0095 Putting a stop to Moscow's divide-and-conquer politics by adopting a common EU energy policy; \u0095 Serious initiative for strengthening Europe's defence capabilities; \u0095 A greater EU commitment to Ukraine to safeguard its independence; \u0095 A greater freedom of travel for all the EU's Eastern neighbours. All of this, and much more, is needed to send a clear signal to Russia that Europe is unwilling to stand idly by as it returns to great power politics. Presumably, none of this will happen, and it is precisely such inaction that is, in large part, the cause of Russia's strength and Europe's weakness. At the same time, however, one shouldn't lose sight of the joint interests linking Russia and the west. Cooperative relations should be maintained as far as possible. It is blatantly obvious that for Russia's elites, weakness and cooperation are mutually exclusive. Therefore, whoever wants cooperation with Russia \u2013 which is in Europe's interest \u2013 must be strong. That is the lesson from the violence in the Caucasus that Europe must urgently take to heart. Copyright: Project Syndicate/Institute for Human Sciences, 2008.", "tags": ["Russia", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Joschka Fischer: Realism about Russia"},{"date": "2008-08-15T12:33:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Permit me to expand briefly on why I think gratuitously angering Russia is kind of a bad idea.We all know China is about to dominate the world, right? If you asked your average person in the street in either America or Britain to name the world's top three powers, you'd probably get: the United States; China; and third, I think most people would say Russia, but you'd likely hear a few Indias and maybe some other choices.Now consider power in terms of nuclear arsenals. Assuming you haven't checked lately, you may think that by now, China may have about as many nukes as the other great powers.Ahem. Check this out. China has about 400 suspected nuclear warheads. Russia has at least 12,000 (as does the US). Granted, 400 is plenty enough, but the point is that we don't want another situation where the world's two greatest nuclear powers are at each other's throats. That wasn't good for either society, let alone for the Cubans and Congolese and Angolans and Guatemalans and lots of other folks.What we want, instead, is reduction and even, eventually, elimination of all nuclear arsenals. Radical and crazy? It's the official position of well-known Chomsky acolytes Henry Kissinger and George Schultz and Sam Nunn. If the Bush administration leaves office having ratcheted up US-Russia tension, among its other signal triumphs...well, it'll be par for the course, but yet another disaster.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Russia's nuclear arsenal"},{"date": "2008-08-13T17:28:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Here's a terrific piece, measured and astute, by Soli Ozel of Istanbul Bilgi University that just went up at PostGlobal, the Washington Post's international affairs site. Money quote one:I support the independence of Kosovo. I find the Russian assault against Georgia illegal and disproportionate and I think the Kremlin's regime is brutal. But then again, would anyone take seriously Paris, whose complicity in the Rwandan genocide was recently reiterated, or Washington, which invaded a country (illegally and illegitimately by the judgment of most of the world) and made torture legal, when they accuse Russia of anything? So for every country that wants to contain Russia you may find one or two that see it as a counterweight to the United States and a good response to Western conceit. What I am getting at is the question of legitimacy.Money quote two:Arguably the American moment in the Caucasus is gone. It is time to go back to the drawing board; to come up with a new policy that will speak to the Russians' better natures and bring them closer to Western policies, even if they are unlikely to become model democrats in the immediate future.No, we aren't quite all Georgians now, John.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: 'Russia Is Back'"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's strategy to revise the post-Soviet order in what it calls its \"near abroad\" will be pursued with even more perseverance following its victory over Georgia. Europe should have no illusions about this and should begin to prepare itself. But, as the European Union ponders what to do, cold realism, not hysterical overreaction, is in order.Unfortunately, equating the current situation in the Caucasus with the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 does not attest to this kind of realism. Neither the west nor Nato constitutes the decisive strategic threat facing Russia, which comes from the Islamic south and from the Far East, in particular the emerging superpower, China. Moreover, Russia's strength is in no way comparable to that of the former Soviet Union. Indeed, demographically, Russia is undergoing a dramatic decline. Apart from commodity exports, it has little to offer to the global economy. Notwithstanding booming oil and gas revenues, its infrastructure remains underdeveloped, and successful economic modernisation is a long way off. Likewise, its political and legal system is authoritarian, and its numerous minority problems remain unsolved. As a result, Russia's current challenging of the territorial integrity of Georgia might prove to be a grave error in the not-so-distant future.Given this structural weakness, the idea of a new Cold War is misleading. The Cold War was an endurance race between two similarly strong rivals, the weaker of which eventually had to give up. Russia does not have the capacity to wage another struggle of that type. Nevertheless, as a restored great power, the new Russia will for the time being attempt to ride in the slipstream of other great powers for as long as doing so coincides with its possibilities and interests; it will concentrate on its own sphere of influence and on its role as a global energy power; and it will otherwise make use of its opportunities on a global scale to limit America's power. But it will not be able to seriously challenge the United States \u2013 or looking towards the future, China \u2013 in ways that the Soviet Union once did. It is now clear that in the future, Russia will once again pursue its vital interests with military force \u2013 particularly in its \"near abroad\". But Europe must never accept a renewal of Russian great power politics, which operates according to the idea that might makes right. Indeed, it is here that Russia's renewed confrontation with the west begins, because the new Europe is based on the principle of the inviolability of boundaries, peaceful conflict resolution, and the rule of law, so to forgo this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self-abandonment. Further eastward expansion of Nato, however, will be possible only against fierce Russian resistance. Nor will this kind of policy in any way create more security, because it entails making promises that won't be kept in an emergency \u2013 as we now see in Georgia.For too long, the west has ignored Russia's recovery of strength and was not prepared to accept the consequences. But not only Russia has changed; so has the entire world. America's neo-conservatives have wasted a large part of their country's power and moral authority in an unnecessary war in Iraq, weakening the only global western power. China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Persian Gulf today are the world economy's new growth centers and will soon be centers of power to be reckoned with. In view of these realities, the threat of exclusion from the G8 doesn't really feel earth shattering to Russia. Europe's disunity and impotence underline this image of a West that has partially lost touch with geo-political realities. The response to the return of Russia's imperial great power politics has nothing to do with punishing Russia, and a lot to do with establishing innately Western \u2013 especially European \u2013 positions of power. This requires several measures: \u0095 A new political dynamism vis-\u00e0-vis Turkey to link this country, one crucial for European security, permanently to Europe; \u0095 Putting a stop to Moscow's divide-and-conquer politics by adopting a common EU energy policy; \u0095 Serious initiative for strengthening Europe's defence capabilities; \u0095 A greater EU commitment to Ukraine to safeguard its independence; \u0095 A greater freedom of travel for all the EU's Eastern neighbours. All of this, and much more, is needed to send a clear signal to Russia that Europe is unwilling to stand idly by as it returns to great power politics. Presumably, none of this will happen, and it is precisely such inaction that is, in large part, the cause of Russia's strength and Europe's weakness. At the same time, however, one shouldn't lose sight of the joint interests linking Russia and the west. Cooperative relations should be maintained as far as possible. It is blatantly obvious that for Russia's elites, weakness and cooperation are mutually exclusive. Therefore, whoever wants cooperation with Russia \u2013 which is in Europe's interest \u2013 must be strong. That is the lesson from the violence in the Caucasus that Europe must urgently take to heart. Copyright: Project Syndicate/Institute for Human Sciences, 2008.", "tags": ["Russia", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Joschka Fischer: Realism about Russia"},{"date": "2008-08-15T12:33:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Permit me to expand briefly on why I think gratuitously angering Russia is kind of a bad idea.We all know China is about to dominate the world, right? If you asked your average person in the street in either America or Britain to name the world's top three powers, you'd probably get: the United States; China; and third, I think most people would say Russia, but you'd likely hear a few Indias and maybe some other choices.Now consider power in terms of nuclear arsenals. Assuming you haven't checked lately, you may think that by now, China may have about as many nukes as the other great powers.Ahem. Check this out. China has about 400 suspected nuclear warheads. Russia has at least 12,000 (as does the US). Granted, 400 is plenty enough, but the point is that we don't want another situation where the world's two greatest nuclear powers are at each other's throats. That wasn't good for either society, let alone for the Cubans and Congolese and Angolans and Guatemalans and lots of other folks.What we want, instead, is reduction and even, eventually, elimination of all nuclear arsenals. Radical and crazy? It's the official position of well-known Chomsky acolytes Henry Kissinger and George Schultz and Sam Nunn. If the Bush administration leaves office having ratcheted up US-Russia tension, among its other signal triumphs...well, it'll be par for the course, but yet another disaster.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Russia's nuclear arsenal"},{"date": "2008-08-13T17:28:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Here's a terrific piece, measured and astute, by Soli Ozel of Istanbul Bilgi University that just went up at PostGlobal, the Washington Post's international affairs site. Money quote one:I support the independence of Kosovo. I find the Russian assault against Georgia illegal and disproportionate and I think the Kremlin's regime is brutal. But then again, would anyone take seriously Paris, whose complicity in the Rwandan genocide was recently reiterated, or Washington, which invaded a country (illegally and illegitimately by the judgment of most of the world) and made torture legal, when they accuse Russia of anything? So for every country that wants to contain Russia you may find one or two that see it as a counterweight to the United States and a good response to Western conceit. What I am getting at is the question of legitimacy.Money quote two:Arguably the American moment in the Caucasus is gone. It is time to go back to the drawing board; to come up with a new policy that will speak to the Russians' better natures and bring them closer to Western policies, even if they are unlikely to become model democrats in the immediate future.No, we aren't quite all Georgians now, John.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: 'Russia Is Back'"},{"date": "2008-08-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In weeks and years past, each of us has argued that Russia was pursuing a policy of regime change toward Georgia and its pro-western, democratically elected president, Mikheil Saakashvili. We predicted that, absent strong and unified western diplomatic involvement, war was coming. Now, tragically, an escalation of violence in South Ossetia has culminated in a full-scale Russian invasion of Georgia. The west, especially the United States, could have prevented this war. A watershed moment is at hand in the west's post-cold war relations with Russia.Exactly what happened in South Ossetia last week is unclear. Each side will argue its own version. But we know, without doubt, that Georgia was responding to repeated provocative attacks by South Ossetian separatists controlled and funded by the Kremlin. This is a not a war Georgia wanted; it believed that it was slowly gaining ground in South Ossetia through a strategy of soft power. Whatever mistakes Georgia's government made cannot justify Russia's actions. The Kremlin has invaded a neighbor, an illegal act of aggression that violates the UN charter and fundamental principles of cooperation and security in Europe.Beginning a well-planned war (including cyber-warfare) as the Olympics were opening violates the ancient tradition of a truce to conflict during the games. Russia's willingness to create a war zone 25 miles from the Black Sea city of Sochi, where it is to host the winter games in 2014, hardly demonstrates its commitment to Olympic ideals. In contrast, Russia's timing suggests that Vladimir Putin seeks to overthrow Saakashvili well ahead of the US elections, and thus avoid beginning relations with the next president on an overtly confrontational note. Russia's goal is not simply, as it claims, restoring the status quo in South Ossetia. It wants regime change in Georgia. It has opened a second front in the other disputed Georgian territory, Abkhazia, just south of Sochi. But its great goal is to replace Saakashvili \u2013 a man Putin despises \u2013 with a president more subject to Kremlin influence. As Swedish foreign minister Carl Bildt pointed out on Saturday, Moscow's rationale for invading has parallels to the darkest chapters of Europe's history. Having issued passports to tens of thousands of Abkhazians and South Ossetians, Moscow now claims it must intervene to protect them \u2013 a tactic reminiscent of one used by Nazi Germany at the start of the second world war. Russia seeks to roll back democratic breakthroughs on its borders, to destroy any chance of further Nato or EU enlargement and to re-establish a sphere of hegemony over its neighbours. By trying to destroy a democratic, pro-western Georgia, Moscow is sending a message that, in its part of the world, being close to America and the west does not pay. This moment could well mark the end of an era in Europe during which realpolitik and spheres of influence were supposed to be replaced by cooperative norms and a country's right to choose its own path. Hopes for a more liberal Russia under President Dmitry Medvedev will need to be reexamined. His justification for this invasion reads more like Brezhnev than Gorbachev. While no one wants a return to cold war-style confrontation, Russia's behavior poses a direct challenge to European and international order.What can the west do? First, Georgia deserves the west's solidarity and support. The west must get the fighting stopped and preserve Georgia's territorial integrity within its current international border. As soon as hostilities cease, there should be a major, coordinated transatlantic effort to help Tbilisi rebuild and recover. Second, we should not pretend that Russia is a neutral peacekeeper in conflicts on its borders. Russia is part of the problem, not the solution. For too long, Moscow has used existing international mandates to pursue neo-imperial policies. The west must disavow these mandates and insist on truly neutral international forces, under the UN, to monitor a future ceasefire and to mediate.Third, the west needs to counter Russian pressure on its neighbours, especially Ukraine \u2013 most likely the next target in Moscow's efforts to create a new sphere of hegemony. The US and the European Union must be clear that Ukraine and Georgia will not be condemned to some kind of grey zone. Finally, the US and the EU must make clear that this kind of aggression will affect relations and Russia's standing in the west. While western military intervention in Georgia is out of the question \u2013 and no one wants a 21st-century version of the cold war \u2013 Russia's actions cannot be ignored. There is a vast array of political, economic and other areas in which Russia's role and standing will have to be reexamined. The Kremlin must also be put on notice that its own prestige project \u2013 the Sochi Olympics \u2013 will be affected by its behavior. Weak western diplomacy and lack of transatlantic unity failed to prevent an avoidable war. Only strong transatlantic unity can stop this war and begin to repair the immense damage done. Otherwise, we can add one more issue to the growing list of the Bush administration's foreign policy failures. Ronald Asmus, a deputy assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration, is executive director of the Brussels-based Transatlantic Center of the German Marshall Fund of the United States.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nato", "United Nations", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Richard Holbrooke and Ronald Asmus: Russia crosses the line"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's strategy to revise the post-Soviet order in what it calls its \"near abroad\" will be pursued with even more perseverance following its victory over Georgia. Europe should have no illusions about this and should begin to prepare itself. But, as the European Union ponders what to do, cold realism, not hysterical overreaction, is in order.Unfortunately, equating the current situation in the Caucasus with the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 does not attest to this kind of realism. Neither the west nor Nato constitutes the decisive strategic threat facing Russia, which comes from the Islamic south and from the Far East, in particular the emerging superpower, China. Moreover, Russia's strength is in no way comparable to that of the former Soviet Union. Indeed, demographically, Russia is undergoing a dramatic decline. Apart from commodity exports, it has little to offer to the global economy. Notwithstanding booming oil and gas revenues, its infrastructure remains underdeveloped, and successful economic modernisation is a long way off. Likewise, its political and legal system is authoritarian, and its numerous minority problems remain unsolved. As a result, Russia's current challenging of the territorial integrity of Georgia might prove to be a grave error in the not-so-distant future.Given this structural weakness, the idea of a new Cold War is misleading. The Cold War was an endurance race between two similarly strong rivals, the weaker of which eventually had to give up. Russia does not have the capacity to wage another struggle of that type. Nevertheless, as a restored great power, the new Russia will for the time being attempt to ride in the slipstream of other great powers for as long as doing so coincides with its possibilities and interests; it will concentrate on its own sphere of influence and on its role as a global energy power; and it will otherwise make use of its opportunities on a global scale to limit America's power. But it will not be able to seriously challenge the United States \u2013 or looking towards the future, China \u2013 in ways that the Soviet Union once did. It is now clear that in the future, Russia will once again pursue its vital interests with military force \u2013 particularly in its \"near abroad\". But Europe must never accept a renewal of Russian great power politics, which operates according to the idea that might makes right. Indeed, it is here that Russia's renewed confrontation with the west begins, because the new Europe is based on the principle of the inviolability of boundaries, peaceful conflict resolution, and the rule of law, so to forgo this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self-abandonment. Further eastward expansion of Nato, however, will be possible only against fierce Russian resistance. Nor will this kind of policy in any way create more security, because it entails making promises that won't be kept in an emergency \u2013 as we now see in Georgia.For too long, the west has ignored Russia's recovery of strength and was not prepared to accept the consequences. But not only Russia has changed; so has the entire world. America's neo-conservatives have wasted a large part of their country's power and moral authority in an unnecessary war in Iraq, weakening the only global western power. China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Persian Gulf today are the world economy's new growth centers and will soon be centers of power to be reckoned with. In view of these realities, the threat of exclusion from the G8 doesn't really feel earth shattering to Russia. Europe's disunity and impotence underline this image of a West that has partially lost touch with geo-political realities. The response to the return of Russia's imperial great power politics has nothing to do with punishing Russia, and a lot to do with establishing innately Western \u2013 especially European \u2013 positions of power. This requires several measures: \u0095 A new political dynamism vis-\u00e0-vis Turkey to link this country, one crucial for European security, permanently to Europe; \u0095 Putting a stop to Moscow's divide-and-conquer politics by adopting a common EU energy policy; \u0095 Serious initiative for strengthening Europe's defence capabilities; \u0095 A greater EU commitment to Ukraine to safeguard its independence; \u0095 A greater freedom of travel for all the EU's Eastern neighbours. All of this, and much more, is needed to send a clear signal to Russia that Europe is unwilling to stand idly by as it returns to great power politics. Presumably, none of this will happen, and it is precisely such inaction that is, in large part, the cause of Russia's strength and Europe's weakness. At the same time, however, one shouldn't lose sight of the joint interests linking Russia and the west. Cooperative relations should be maintained as far as possible. It is blatantly obvious that for Russia's elites, weakness and cooperation are mutually exclusive. Therefore, whoever wants cooperation with Russia \u2013 which is in Europe's interest \u2013 must be strong. That is the lesson from the violence in the Caucasus that Europe must urgently take to heart. Copyright: Project Syndicate/Institute for Human Sciences, 2008.", "tags": ["Russia", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Joschka Fischer: Realism about Russia"},{"date": "2008-08-15T12:33:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Permit me to expand briefly on why I think gratuitously angering Russia is kind of a bad idea.We all know China is about to dominate the world, right? If you asked your average person in the street in either America or Britain to name the world's top three powers, you'd probably get: the United States; China; and third, I think most people would say Russia, but you'd likely hear a few Indias and maybe some other choices.Now consider power in terms of nuclear arsenals. Assuming you haven't checked lately, you may think that by now, China may have about as many nukes as the other great powers.Ahem. Check this out. China has about 400 suspected nuclear warheads. Russia has at least 12,000 (as does the US). Granted, 400 is plenty enough, but the point is that we don't want another situation where the world's two greatest nuclear powers are at each other's throats. That wasn't good for either society, let alone for the Cubans and Congolese and Angolans and Guatemalans and lots of other folks.What we want, instead, is reduction and even, eventually, elimination of all nuclear arsenals. Radical and crazy? It's the official position of well-known Chomsky acolytes Henry Kissinger and George Schultz and Sam Nunn. If the Bush administration leaves office having ratcheted up US-Russia tension, among its other signal triumphs...well, it'll be par for the course, but yet another disaster.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Russia's nuclear arsenal"},{"date": "2008-08-13T17:28:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Here's a terrific piece, measured and astute, by Soli Ozel of Istanbul Bilgi University that just went up at PostGlobal, the Washington Post's international affairs site. Money quote one:I support the independence of Kosovo. I find the Russian assault against Georgia illegal and disproportionate and I think the Kremlin's regime is brutal. But then again, would anyone take seriously Paris, whose complicity in the Rwandan genocide was recently reiterated, or Washington, which invaded a country (illegally and illegitimately by the judgment of most of the world) and made torture legal, when they accuse Russia of anything? So for every country that wants to contain Russia you may find one or two that see it as a counterweight to the United States and a good response to Western conceit. What I am getting at is the question of legitimacy.Money quote two:Arguably the American moment in the Caucasus is gone. It is time to go back to the drawing board; to come up with a new policy that will speak to the Russians' better natures and bring them closer to Western policies, even if they are unlikely to become model democrats in the immediate future.No, we aren't quite all Georgians now, John.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: 'Russia Is Back'"},{"date": "2008-08-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In weeks and years past, each of us has argued that Russia was pursuing a policy of regime change toward Georgia and its pro-western, democratically elected president, Mikheil Saakashvili. We predicted that, absent strong and unified western diplomatic involvement, war was coming. Now, tragically, an escalation of violence in South Ossetia has culminated in a full-scale Russian invasion of Georgia. The west, especially the United States, could have prevented this war. A watershed moment is at hand in the west's post-cold war relations with Russia.Exactly what happened in South Ossetia last week is unclear. Each side will argue its own version. But we know, without doubt, that Georgia was responding to repeated provocative attacks by South Ossetian separatists controlled and funded by the Kremlin. This is a not a war Georgia wanted; it believed that it was slowly gaining ground in South Ossetia through a strategy of soft power. Whatever mistakes Georgia's government made cannot justify Russia's actions. The Kremlin has invaded a neighbor, an illegal act of aggression that violates the UN charter and fundamental principles of cooperation and security in Europe.Beginning a well-planned war (including cyber-warfare) as the Olympics were opening violates the ancient tradition of a truce to conflict during the games. Russia's willingness to create a war zone 25 miles from the Black Sea city of Sochi, where it is to host the winter games in 2014, hardly demonstrates its commitment to Olympic ideals. In contrast, Russia's timing suggests that Vladimir Putin seeks to overthrow Saakashvili well ahead of the US elections, and thus avoid beginning relations with the next president on an overtly confrontational note. Russia's goal is not simply, as it claims, restoring the status quo in South Ossetia. It wants regime change in Georgia. It has opened a second front in the other disputed Georgian territory, Abkhazia, just south of Sochi. But its great goal is to replace Saakashvili \u2013 a man Putin despises \u2013 with a president more subject to Kremlin influence. As Swedish foreign minister Carl Bildt pointed out on Saturday, Moscow's rationale for invading has parallels to the darkest chapters of Europe's history. Having issued passports to tens of thousands of Abkhazians and South Ossetians, Moscow now claims it must intervene to protect them \u2013 a tactic reminiscent of one used by Nazi Germany at the start of the second world war. Russia seeks to roll back democratic breakthroughs on its borders, to destroy any chance of further Nato or EU enlargement and to re-establish a sphere of hegemony over its neighbours. By trying to destroy a democratic, pro-western Georgia, Moscow is sending a message that, in its part of the world, being close to America and the west does not pay. This moment could well mark the end of an era in Europe during which realpolitik and spheres of influence were supposed to be replaced by cooperative norms and a country's right to choose its own path. Hopes for a more liberal Russia under President Dmitry Medvedev will need to be reexamined. His justification for this invasion reads more like Brezhnev than Gorbachev. While no one wants a return to cold war-style confrontation, Russia's behavior poses a direct challenge to European and international order.What can the west do? First, Georgia deserves the west's solidarity and support. The west must get the fighting stopped and preserve Georgia's territorial integrity within its current international border. As soon as hostilities cease, there should be a major, coordinated transatlantic effort to help Tbilisi rebuild and recover. Second, we should not pretend that Russia is a neutral peacekeeper in conflicts on its borders. Russia is part of the problem, not the solution. For too long, Moscow has used existing international mandates to pursue neo-imperial policies. The west must disavow these mandates and insist on truly neutral international forces, under the UN, to monitor a future ceasefire and to mediate.Third, the west needs to counter Russian pressure on its neighbours, especially Ukraine \u2013 most likely the next target in Moscow's efforts to create a new sphere of hegemony. The US and the European Union must be clear that Ukraine and Georgia will not be condemned to some kind of grey zone. Finally, the US and the EU must make clear that this kind of aggression will affect relations and Russia's standing in the west. While western military intervention in Georgia is out of the question \u2013 and no one wants a 21st-century version of the cold war \u2013 Russia's actions cannot be ignored. There is a vast array of political, economic and other areas in which Russia's role and standing will have to be reexamined. The Kremlin must also be put on notice that its own prestige project \u2013 the Sochi Olympics \u2013 will be affected by its behavior. Weak western diplomacy and lack of transatlantic unity failed to prevent an avoidable war. Only strong transatlantic unity can stop this war and begin to repair the immense damage done. Otherwise, we can add one more issue to the growing list of the Bush administration's foreign policy failures. Ronald Asmus, a deputy assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration, is executive director of the Brussels-based Transatlantic Center of the German Marshall Fund of the United States.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nato", "United Nations", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Richard Holbrooke and Ronald Asmus: Russia crosses the line"},{"date": "2008-08-11T15:11:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "GeorgiaCapital: Tbilisi President:  Mikheil SaakashviliPopulation: 4,630,841Independence: April 9 1991 (from Soviet Union)Area: 69,700 sq km Unemployment rate: 13.6%Population below poverty line: 31%Currency: LariManpower fit for military service: males aged 16-49: 910,720 females aged 16-49: 967,566 Oil exports: 2,400 bbl/day Religion: Orthodox Christian 83.9%RussiaCapital: Moscow President: Dmitry Medvedev Population: 140,702,094 Independence: August 24 1991 (from Soviet Union)Area: 17,075,200 sq km Unemployment rate: 6.2%Population below poverty line: 15.8%Currency: RubleManpower fit for military service: males aged 16-49: 21,488,878 females aged 16-49: 28,760,976 Oil exports: 5.08 million bbl/day Religion: Russian Orthodox 15%-20%. Russia has large population of non-practising believers and non-believersSources: CIA World Factbook and Georgian ministry of economic development", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Georgia and Russia: Factfile"},{"date": "2008-09-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Russia, at least, Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg think alike. Belatedly and perhaps emptily, all three party leaders have condemned the invasion of Georgia and demanded a tough response. Yet a different and even odder alliance is taking shape on the other side. Its members include such unlikely figures as Andrew Murray of Stop the War Coalition, David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, and historian Correlli Barnett, as well as anonymous but influential City bankers and lawyers.The Kremlin's most constant allies are the old pro-Soviet left: people such as Bob Wareing, the veteran leftwing MP for Liverpool, West Derby. He recalls warmly the wartime alliance with Stalin's Soviet Union, and the promise of social justice in the communist system. In the Morning Star, Andrew Murray blames the war in Georgia on American imperialism and contrasts it with the success of \"Soviet nationalities policy\" in promoting \"the cultural, linguistic and educational development of each ethnic group, no matter how small or how historically marginalised\". Chechens, Crimean Tatars and other victims of Stalin's murderous deportation policies presumably don't count.A simpler approach is pure Russophilia: people who love Russia's culture or language, and rejoice in what seems to be a national rebirth under Vladimir Putin. A wider group is sparked chiefly by anti-Americanism. If you hate George W Bush then you may cast a friendly glance on the people who make life difficult for him, such as Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela, or Putin in Russia. It is countries such as Russia, however spiky and unattractive, that can derail the new world order. Yet that's odd. If, say, you feel that Muslims get a hard deal from America, then surely the Russian torture camps in Chechnya should make your blood boil?In odd alliance with the anti-globalists are the champions of international business: those who do well out of selling goods and services to Russia. In the City, investment banks, law firms, accountants and consultants have enjoyed a bonanza thanks to their Russian clients. Auditors such as PricewaterhouseCoopers have not flinched at doing the Kremlin's dirty work - for example in withdrawing their audit of Yukos, once Russia's biggest oil company, which conveniently coincided with Kremlin allegations of fraud. For this pinstriped fifth column, business is business, and worries about human rights or the rule of law are tiresome distractions.David Wilshire, a leading Conservative member of the Council of Europe parliamentary assembly, has lobbied hard to make Mikhail Margelov, a pro-Putin Russian parliamentarian who used to be a KGB language instructor, the next president of the organisation, which is supposedly devoted to promoting human rights. Then come those such as the polemical Peter Hitchens, who have no great liking for tycoons, but a deep admiration for the nation-state. He writes: \"I often wish we were more like Russia, aggressively defending our interests, making sure we owned our own crucial industries, killing terrorists instead of giving in to them, running our own foreign policy instead of trotting two feet behind George W Bush.\" Russia, he says, has come to stand for national sovereignty and independence, while we give up our own.Correlli Barnett praises the regime in Russia in a similar vein. In the past few days, for example, Barnett has said: \"World peace? Give me Putin any day!\"; and \"the West should jettison moral indignation and global do-goodery as the basis of policy, and instead emulate Russia's admirable reversion to 19th-century realpolitik\". The main motive here is dislike for the whole apparatus of modern diplomacy - multilateral organisations governed by international treaties and at least a notional commitment to human rights.It is all very odd. Russia is an oil-fuelled fascist kleptocracy ruled by secret police goons and their cronies. It is authoritarian: critics risk forcible incarceration in psychiatric hospitals, or are simply murdered - such as the shooting dead in police custody of Magomed Yevloyev, an Ingush journalist, this week. It is imperialist: bullying neighbours with oil and gas cut-offs, let alone the occupation of Georgia, where Russia's proxies have practised ethnic cleansing on a scale that recalls the atrocities of the wars in former Yugoslavia. And it is deeply corrupt and lawless: something that even Putin's successor as president, Dmitry Medvedev, has acknowledged publicly. However bad other countries may be, it is hard to find anything there worth emulating.\u00b7 Edward Lucas is the author of The New Cold War: How the Kremlin Menaces Both Russia and the West newcoldwar2008@gmail.com Edwardlucas.com", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Lucas: To Russia, with love"},{"date": "2008-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's strategy to revise the post-Soviet order in what it calls its \"near abroad\" will be pursued with even more perseverance following its victory over Georgia. Europe should have no illusions about this and should begin to prepare itself. But, as the European Union ponders what to do, cold realism, not hysterical overreaction, is in order.Unfortunately, equating the current situation in the Caucasus with the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 does not attest to this kind of realism. Neither the west nor Nato constitutes the decisive strategic threat facing Russia, which comes from the Islamic south and from the Far East, in particular the emerging superpower, China. Moreover, Russia's strength is in no way comparable to that of the former Soviet Union. Indeed, demographically, Russia is undergoing a dramatic decline. Apart from commodity exports, it has little to offer to the global economy. Notwithstanding booming oil and gas revenues, its infrastructure remains underdeveloped, and successful economic modernisation is a long way off. Likewise, its political and legal system is authoritarian, and its numerous minority problems remain unsolved. As a result, Russia's current challenging of the territorial integrity of Georgia might prove to be a grave error in the not-so-distant future.Given this structural weakness, the idea of a new Cold War is misleading. The Cold War was an endurance race between two similarly strong rivals, the weaker of which eventually had to give up. Russia does not have the capacity to wage another struggle of that type. Nevertheless, as a restored great power, the new Russia will for the time being attempt to ride in the slipstream of other great powers for as long as doing so coincides with its possibilities and interests; it will concentrate on its own sphere of influence and on its role as a global energy power; and it will otherwise make use of its opportunities on a global scale to limit America's power. But it will not be able to seriously challenge the United States \u2013 or looking towards the future, China \u2013 in ways that the Soviet Union once did. It is now clear that in the future, Russia will once again pursue its vital interests with military force \u2013 particularly in its \"near abroad\". But Europe must never accept a renewal of Russian great power politics, which operates according to the idea that might makes right. Indeed, it is here that Russia's renewed confrontation with the west begins, because the new Europe is based on the principle of the inviolability of boundaries, peaceful conflict resolution, and the rule of law, so to forgo this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self-abandonment. Further eastward expansion of Nato, however, will be possible only against fierce Russian resistance. Nor will this kind of policy in any way create more security, because it entails making promises that won't be kept in an emergency \u2013 as we now see in Georgia.For too long, the west has ignored Russia's recovery of strength and was not prepared to accept the consequences. But not only Russia has changed; so has the entire world. America's neo-conservatives have wasted a large part of their country's power and moral authority in an unnecessary war in Iraq, weakening the only global western power. China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Persian Gulf today are the world economy's new growth centers and will soon be centers of power to be reckoned with. In view of these realities, the threat of exclusion from the G8 doesn't really feel earth shattering to Russia. Europe's disunity and impotence underline this image of a West that has partially lost touch with geo-political realities. The response to the return of Russia's imperial great power politics has nothing to do with punishing Russia, and a lot to do with establishing innately Western \u2013 especially European \u2013 positions of power. This requires several measures: \u0095 A new political dynamism vis-\u00e0-vis Turkey to link this country, one crucial for European security, permanently to Europe; \u0095 Putting a stop to Moscow's divide-and-conquer politics by adopting a common EU energy policy; \u0095 Serious initiative for strengthening Europe's defence capabilities; \u0095 A greater EU commitment to Ukraine to safeguard its independence; \u0095 A greater freedom of travel for all the EU's Eastern neighbours. All of this, and much more, is needed to send a clear signal to Russia that Europe is unwilling to stand idly by as it returns to great power politics. Presumably, none of this will happen, and it is precisely such inaction that is, in large part, the cause of Russia's strength and Europe's weakness. At the same time, however, one shouldn't lose sight of the joint interests linking Russia and the west. Cooperative relations should be maintained as far as possible. It is blatantly obvious that for Russia's elites, weakness and cooperation are mutually exclusive. Therefore, whoever wants cooperation with Russia \u2013 which is in Europe's interest \u2013 must be strong. That is the lesson from the violence in the Caucasus that Europe must urgently take to heart. Copyright: Project Syndicate/Institute for Human Sciences, 2008.", "tags": ["Russia", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Joschka Fischer: Realism about Russia"},{"date": "2008-08-15T12:33:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Permit me to expand briefly on why I think gratuitously angering Russia is kind of a bad idea.We all know China is about to dominate the world, right? If you asked your average person in the street in either America or Britain to name the world's top three powers, you'd probably get: the United States; China; and third, I think most people would say Russia, but you'd likely hear a few Indias and maybe some other choices.Now consider power in terms of nuclear arsenals. Assuming you haven't checked lately, you may think that by now, China may have about as many nukes as the other great powers.Ahem. Check this out. China has about 400 suspected nuclear warheads. Russia has at least 12,000 (as does the US). Granted, 400 is plenty enough, but the point is that we don't want another situation where the world's two greatest nuclear powers are at each other's throats. That wasn't good for either society, let alone for the Cubans and Congolese and Angolans and Guatemalans and lots of other folks.What we want, instead, is reduction and even, eventually, elimination of all nuclear arsenals. Radical and crazy? It's the official position of well-known Chomsky acolytes Henry Kissinger and George Schultz and Sam Nunn. If the Bush administration leaves office having ratcheted up US-Russia tension, among its other signal triumphs...well, it'll be par for the course, but yet another disaster.", "tags": ["US foreign policy", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Russia's nuclear arsenal"},{"date": "2008-08-13T17:28:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Here's a terrific piece, measured and astute, by Soli Ozel of Istanbul Bilgi University that just went up at PostGlobal, the Washington Post's international affairs site. Money quote one:I support the independence of Kosovo. I find the Russian assault against Georgia illegal and disproportionate and I think the Kremlin's regime is brutal. But then again, would anyone take seriously Paris, whose complicity in the Rwandan genocide was recently reiterated, or Washington, which invaded a country (illegally and illegitimately by the judgment of most of the world) and made torture legal, when they accuse Russia of anything? So for every country that wants to contain Russia you may find one or two that see it as a counterweight to the United States and a good response to Western conceit. What I am getting at is the question of legitimacy.Money quote two:Arguably the American moment in the Caucasus is gone. It is time to go back to the drawing board; to come up with a new policy that will speak to the Russians' better natures and bring them closer to Western policies, even if they are unlikely to become model democrats in the immediate future.No, we aren't quite all Georgians now, John.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: 'Russia Is Back'"},{"date": "2008-08-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In weeks and years past, each of us has argued that Russia was pursuing a policy of regime change toward Georgia and its pro-western, democratically elected president, Mikheil Saakashvili. We predicted that, absent strong and unified western diplomatic involvement, war was coming. Now, tragically, an escalation of violence in South Ossetia has culminated in a full-scale Russian invasion of Georgia. The west, especially the United States, could have prevented this war. A watershed moment is at hand in the west's post-cold war relations with Russia.Exactly what happened in South Ossetia last week is unclear. Each side will argue its own version. But we know, without doubt, that Georgia was responding to repeated provocative attacks by South Ossetian separatists controlled and funded by the Kremlin. This is a not a war Georgia wanted; it believed that it was slowly gaining ground in South Ossetia through a strategy of soft power. Whatever mistakes Georgia's government made cannot justify Russia's actions. The Kremlin has invaded a neighbor, an illegal act of aggression that violates the UN charter and fundamental principles of cooperation and security in Europe.Beginning a well-planned war (including cyber-warfare) as the Olympics were opening violates the ancient tradition of a truce to conflict during the games. Russia's willingness to create a war zone 25 miles from the Black Sea city of Sochi, where it is to host the winter games in 2014, hardly demonstrates its commitment to Olympic ideals. In contrast, Russia's timing suggests that Vladimir Putin seeks to overthrow Saakashvili well ahead of the US elections, and thus avoid beginning relations with the next president on an overtly confrontational note. Russia's goal is not simply, as it claims, restoring the status quo in South Ossetia. It wants regime change in Georgia. It has opened a second front in the other disputed Georgian territory, Abkhazia, just south of Sochi. But its great goal is to replace Saakashvili \u2013 a man Putin despises \u2013 with a president more subject to Kremlin influence. As Swedish foreign minister Carl Bildt pointed out on Saturday, Moscow's rationale for invading has parallels to the darkest chapters of Europe's history. Having issued passports to tens of thousands of Abkhazians and South Ossetians, Moscow now claims it must intervene to protect them \u2013 a tactic reminiscent of one used by Nazi Germany at the start of the second world war. Russia seeks to roll back democratic breakthroughs on its borders, to destroy any chance of further Nato or EU enlargement and to re-establish a sphere of hegemony over its neighbours. By trying to destroy a democratic, pro-western Georgia, Moscow is sending a message that, in its part of the world, being close to America and the west does not pay. This moment could well mark the end of an era in Europe during which realpolitik and spheres of influence were supposed to be replaced by cooperative norms and a country's right to choose its own path. Hopes for a more liberal Russia under President Dmitry Medvedev will need to be reexamined. His justification for this invasion reads more like Brezhnev than Gorbachev. While no one wants a return to cold war-style confrontation, Russia's behavior poses a direct challenge to European and international order.What can the west do? First, Georgia deserves the west's solidarity and support. The west must get the fighting stopped and preserve Georgia's territorial integrity within its current international border. As soon as hostilities cease, there should be a major, coordinated transatlantic effort to help Tbilisi rebuild and recover. Second, we should not pretend that Russia is a neutral peacekeeper in conflicts on its borders. Russia is part of the problem, not the solution. For too long, Moscow has used existing international mandates to pursue neo-imperial policies. The west must disavow these mandates and insist on truly neutral international forces, under the UN, to monitor a future ceasefire and to mediate.Third, the west needs to counter Russian pressure on its neighbours, especially Ukraine \u2013 most likely the next target in Moscow's efforts to create a new sphere of hegemony. The US and the European Union must be clear that Ukraine and Georgia will not be condemned to some kind of grey zone. Finally, the US and the EU must make clear that this kind of aggression will affect relations and Russia's standing in the west. While western military intervention in Georgia is out of the question \u2013 and no one wants a 21st-century version of the cold war \u2013 Russia's actions cannot be ignored. There is a vast array of political, economic and other areas in which Russia's role and standing will have to be reexamined. The Kremlin must also be put on notice that its own prestige project \u2013 the Sochi Olympics \u2013 will be affected by its behavior. Weak western diplomacy and lack of transatlantic unity failed to prevent an avoidable war. Only strong transatlantic unity can stop this war and begin to repair the immense damage done. Otherwise, we can add one more issue to the growing list of the Bush administration's foreign policy failures. Ronald Asmus, a deputy assistant secretary of state in the Clinton administration, is executive director of the Brussels-based Transatlantic Center of the German Marshall Fund of the United States.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nato", "United Nations", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Richard Holbrooke and Ronald Asmus: Russia crosses the line"},{"date": "2008-08-11T15:11:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "GeorgiaCapital: Tbilisi President:  Mikheil SaakashviliPopulation: 4,630,841Independence: April 9 1991 (from Soviet Union)Area: 69,700 sq km Unemployment rate: 13.6%Population below poverty line: 31%Currency: LariManpower fit for military service: males aged 16-49: 910,720 females aged 16-49: 967,566 Oil exports: 2,400 bbl/day Religion: Orthodox Christian 83.9%RussiaCapital: Moscow President: Dmitry Medvedev Population: 140,702,094 Independence: August 24 1991 (from Soviet Union)Area: 17,075,200 sq km Unemployment rate: 6.2%Population below poverty line: 15.8%Currency: RubleManpower fit for military service: males aged 16-49: 21,488,878 females aged 16-49: 28,760,976 Oil exports: 5.08 million bbl/day Religion: Russian Orthodox 15%-20%. Russia has large population of non-practising believers and non-believersSources: CIA World Factbook and Georgian ministry of economic development", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Georgia and Russia: Factfile"},{"date": "2008-08-11T12:22:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A European democracy is under full-scale attack from Russia, and EU and Nato leaders are either wringing their hands or sitting on them. The continuing conflict in Georgia is not really about the small south-Caucasus country. By opening up a three-front offensive on Georgia, Moscow is deliberately testing Europe's mettle.The broader west \u2013 European countries, the US, Canada and the host of post-1945 international institutions \u2013 are of course also being tested. But Moscow is particularly interested in how Europe's heavyweights will react. In the wake of serious violence and immense geopolitical consequences, however, Britain, France and Germany have done nothing that might be expected of great powers.This is surprising given that with the stationing of its Black Sea fleet and troops preparing for an amphibious landing off Georgia proper, Russia could at any time cut off Europe's strategic oil link to the Caspian Sea. It is perhaps not that surprising that Russian-backed South Ossetian militia chose last week to attack Georgian troops, sparking the conflict we see now. The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline from Azerbaijan's Caspian shore had just been sabotaged by Kurdish rebels in Turkey, and its exports have been rerouted through a pipeline to Georgia's coast. With just one more bold action, Moscow could control Europe's only major energy import route designed to avoid Russia.Mikhail Saakashvili, the Georgian president, has compared the day's events to the Soviet Union's 1956 intervention in Hungary and the 1968 Russian crushing of the \"Prague Spring\". Russia's 2008 strike against Georgia is in fact very different. Hungary and Czechoslovakia were understood to be within the Soviet Union's agreed area of control, cemented by the cold war's nuclear freeze. Today, Georgia is a fully-independent, sovereign democracy, engaged in a concerted, if bumpy, reform effort to achieve Nato and EU membership. Only Moscow deludes itself that its sphere of influence includes Georgia, a country which has sent troops to Afghanistan and Iraq, which hosts US military trainers, western-oriented energy infrastructure and a western-educated leadership.Russia is a nuclear-armed and increasingly indispensable power. The US and Europe cannot satisfy Georgian calls for material aid against their old cold-war foe. They can, however, take a page out of Moscow's playbook. On his way back from the Olympic opening ceremony in Beijing, Vladimir Putin stopped in Vladikavkaz, in Russian North Ossetia, to lend his support to the war effort. Standing amid Ossetian refugees and Russian tank columns, the message he sent was that Russia takes Georgia seriously, while many western policymakers are on holiday.George Bush, Gordon Brown, Angela Merkel and Nicholas Sarkozy should all visit Tbilisi next week. That one action would send a more powerful message to Moscow than any military or diplomatic aid. It would also lead to the immediate end of the conflict. Merely the security needed to ensure their safety would necessitate a ceasefire on the part of Moscow. While this scenario may be unlikely, it is the vein in which western leaders should be thinking. John McCain could revitalise his flagging presidential bid in one fell swoop by standing side by side with Saakashvili, while his competitor relaxes in Hawaii.Such a sign of solidarity would be an effective, but short-term measure. For the long term, Europe must finally get serious about security in its neighbourhood. South Ossetia is just one among several ominous thawing conflicts, in Georgia's Abkhazia, Azerbaijan's Nagorno-Karabakh and Moldova's Transnistria.All four disputes directly or indirectly involve Russia. The raging conflict sparked in South Ossetia only underscores that each hotspot serves as a tool for Russia to block the region's western integration, to keep strategic energy reserves, trading routes and markets in its \"orbit\". This gives Russia a free hand to divide the EU into Russophobes and Russophiles, energy-dependent and energy-hungry states, countries that receive visits from Vladimir Putin, and countries that receive visits from polonium-wielding agents.Moscow's outdated worldview sees an encroaching west as a threat rather than an opportunity for mutual prosperity. Only through a comprehensive stabilisation initiative for Europe's eastern neighborhood, including high-level European diplomatic engagement, peacekeepers, and economic incentives, can the west effectively convince Moscow that it means business \u2013 in more ways than one.Amid the horrific scenes of violence from Georgia beamed to living rooms around the world, let us attempt for a moment to be serious about this conflict and look at the geopolitical causes and consequences. This is not a Balkan-style ethnic brawl in which all sides share the blame for irrational inhumanity. Russia is using ballistic missiles and strategic bombers against a country one-fortieth its size to finally smash the dream of a Europe whole and free.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Russia", "Nato", "European Union", "Foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alexandros Petersen: Standing up to Russia"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-18T21:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Today, many Russians both at home and abroad believe that the west doesn't like us. I agree: it does not. If asked why, the majority would reply, \"Russophobia\"; Russophobia in the western media, in western politics, in the prejudiced mind of the western man in the street. In other words, their attitude has got nothing to do with us; it is their fault, and theirs alone, and if they don't mend their ways their future relations with Russia are going to be rather dim.There are many interesting assumptions about the Russophobia theory. It presupposes, for example, that the west has somehow singled out Russia and the Russians for unfair treatment. And if so, then there is definitely a western \u2013 particularly American \u2013 conspiracy against Russia. But why would the Americans be interested in such a conspiracy? The majority of my compatriots would answer that it is because Russia is now strong, and the west in general, and the USA in particular, wants to weaken it.This is how many explain the current economic crisis, and this is certainly how they interpret the attitudes of the western media. I hear this from my neighbours, from my students and from my friends. Moreover, this logic has come to define not only the perceptions of lay citizens, but also the views of Russia's political elite who influence its foreign policy. But why should the west like us? A couple of months ago I read a very unflattering account of the misbehaviour of Russians abroad: rowdy, disrespectful to the locals, and crudely throwing money around. The author \u2013 a lover of Russian 19th-century literature \u2013 felt disillusioned about the descendants of Russia's 19th-century intelligentsia. To be sure, we don't all behave like this, but let's face it \u2013 many do. We may be no better or worse than other foreigners abroad, but we have to learn to own up to the behaviour of some of our compatriots. Politically, Russia has been using its newly acquired weight, disproportionately inflated by the world's demand for oil and gas, to try to pressure its neighbours into compliance with its wishes, rather than attempting to turn them into friends and allies. Of course, the Americans have been doing exactly the same since the end of the cold war \u2013 but then, as we know, this has not earned them many friends in the world, either.The allegation of Russophobia presupposes also that while the west is Russophobic, we, the Russians, do like the rest of the world, and even the west itself \u2013 because if we didn't why should we be offended by its dislike of us? But do we really like the west? All public opinion polls show that Russians' attitude to the west, the US and the UK in particular, has steadily deteriorated since the early 1990s. The coverage of these countries by most of the Russian media (and film industry) has become increasingly unfavourable, particularly since the early 2000s, and is at its worst in decades. The British media is prepared to discuss its own Russophobia on its pages, but few Russian publications would even consider publishing an article about Anglophobia in Russia. Not because it does not exist, but because the logic is that while they deserve our dislike, we do not deserve theirs. The same applies, of course, to all others who \"deserved\" Russia's wrath. Has our coverage of Georgia, Ukraine and Poland been objective? More objective than theirs of us? And what about Russia's xenophobia aimed against those foreigners who come to work in its cities and even its own citizens \u2013 the Tatars, the Chechens and other \u2013 all those who are called, disparagingly, \"blacks\"?Even if we accept this logic and assume that the west has been unfair to us (which it was, for example, at the beginning of the Georgia war \u2013 a fact that the Russian propagandists inside the country used to the utmost), than why not do something about it? If Russia loses a propaganda war abroad, than whose fault is that? There is yet another twist to the Russophobia theory. Why is it that we are particularly interested in what the west thinks of us? Why are we not equally concerned about how we appear to the public opinion in China? Or Venezuela? Or Iran? Or Zimbabwe? Is this because they are our partners or friends, and there is certainly no Russophobia there? But then it is we who choose our friends. We have to concede that the Americans and the British have the same right to choose theirs. The Russian philosopher Georgii Fedotov wrote after the first world war: \"Russian national feeling has been deeply hurt by the defeat, partition and the fall of Russia, and, unwilling to take the responsibility on itself, lacking the courage for penitence, it has begun to look for a culprit outside itself \u2013 in the west.\" His words still apply. Self-pity, righteousness and a sense of victimhood are extremely destructive for any nation. The Russophobia theory feeds into all these traits. If Russia's relations are not all that one might wish, let's not blame it on Russophobia. Russia has to take its full share of the responsibility for this.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Irina Filatova: Russia should recognise its faults"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-18T21:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Today, many Russians both at home and abroad believe that the west doesn't like us. I agree: it does not. If asked why, the majority would reply, \"Russophobia\"; Russophobia in the western media, in western politics, in the prejudiced mind of the western man in the street. In other words, their attitude has got nothing to do with us; it is their fault, and theirs alone, and if they don't mend their ways their future relations with Russia are going to be rather dim.There are many interesting assumptions about the Russophobia theory. It presupposes, for example, that the west has somehow singled out Russia and the Russians for unfair treatment. And if so, then there is definitely a western \u2013 particularly American \u2013 conspiracy against Russia. But why would the Americans be interested in such a conspiracy? The majority of my compatriots would answer that it is because Russia is now strong, and the west in general, and the USA in particular, wants to weaken it.This is how many explain the current economic crisis, and this is certainly how they interpret the attitudes of the western media. I hear this from my neighbours, from my students and from my friends. Moreover, this logic has come to define not only the perceptions of lay citizens, but also the views of Russia's political elite who influence its foreign policy. But why should the west like us? A couple of months ago I read a very unflattering account of the misbehaviour of Russians abroad: rowdy, disrespectful to the locals, and crudely throwing money around. The author \u2013 a lover of Russian 19th-century literature \u2013 felt disillusioned about the descendants of Russia's 19th-century intelligentsia. To be sure, we don't all behave like this, but let's face it \u2013 many do. We may be no better or worse than other foreigners abroad, but we have to learn to own up to the behaviour of some of our compatriots. Politically, Russia has been using its newly acquired weight, disproportionately inflated by the world's demand for oil and gas, to try to pressure its neighbours into compliance with its wishes, rather than attempting to turn them into friends and allies. Of course, the Americans have been doing exactly the same since the end of the cold war \u2013 but then, as we know, this has not earned them many friends in the world, either.The allegation of Russophobia presupposes also that while the west is Russophobic, we, the Russians, do like the rest of the world, and even the west itself \u2013 because if we didn't why should we be offended by its dislike of us? But do we really like the west? All public opinion polls show that Russians' attitude to the west, the US and the UK in particular, has steadily deteriorated since the early 1990s. The coverage of these countries by most of the Russian media (and film industry) has become increasingly unfavourable, particularly since the early 2000s, and is at its worst in decades. The British media is prepared to discuss its own Russophobia on its pages, but few Russian publications would even consider publishing an article about Anglophobia in Russia. Not because it does not exist, but because the logic is that while they deserve our dislike, we do not deserve theirs. The same applies, of course, to all others who \"deserved\" Russia's wrath. Has our coverage of Georgia, Ukraine and Poland been objective? More objective than theirs of us? And what about Russia's xenophobia aimed against those foreigners who come to work in its cities and even its own citizens \u2013 the Tatars, the Chechens and other \u2013 all those who are called, disparagingly, \"blacks\"?Even if we accept this logic and assume that the west has been unfair to us (which it was, for example, at the beginning of the Georgia war \u2013 a fact that the Russian propagandists inside the country used to the utmost), than why not do something about it? If Russia loses a propaganda war abroad, than whose fault is that? There is yet another twist to the Russophobia theory. Why is it that we are particularly interested in what the west thinks of us? Why are we not equally concerned about how we appear to the public opinion in China? Or Venezuela? Or Iran? Or Zimbabwe? Is this because they are our partners or friends, and there is certainly no Russophobia there? But then it is we who choose our friends. We have to concede that the Americans and the British have the same right to choose theirs. The Russian philosopher Georgii Fedotov wrote after the first world war: \"Russian national feeling has been deeply hurt by the defeat, partition and the fall of Russia, and, unwilling to take the responsibility on itself, lacking the courage for penitence, it has begun to look for a culprit outside itself \u2013 in the west.\" His words still apply. Self-pity, righteousness and a sense of victimhood are extremely destructive for any nation. The Russophobia theory feeds into all these traits. If Russia's relations are not all that one might wish, let's not blame it on Russophobia. Russia has to take its full share of the responsibility for this.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Irina Filatova: Russia should recognise its faults"},{"date": "2008-11-21T18:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "More than once, I have listened to a Russian tell me the convoluted story of how a grandparent was killed on the personal orders of Stalin. Sometimes, I sensed they knew this was far-fetched, but this myth gave an explanation and a higher meaning to their relative's death.When a journalist and Putin critic is killed in Russia (or London), the reaction is often the same from journalists. The immediate rush to judgment is that the \"ex-KGB colonel\" is somehow involved. It certainly makes a good story that is easy to understand and excites the emotions by personalising the perpetrator.But I have never been truly convinced of Putin's involvement in a grand Kremlin plot to kill Anna Politkovskaya, a crime that finally reached court this week. When he said that she was \"very minor\", he was not so much denigrating her journalism as being callously honest \u2013 there would have been too many negatives from having her killed, not least the bad press abroad.Under Putin, as under Yeltsin, the deaths of journalists have mainly been connected with the trouble in Chechnya and Ingushetia or the investigation of shady business deals and corruption. Just this week, a local Moscow journalist was badly beaten after providing critical coverage of the local authorities. The fact that the people who ordered Politkovskaya's killing (most likely someone she was investigating in Chechnya) have not been found does not mean that the Kremlin was behind it. It means that someone with enough power \u2013 control over guns or money \u2013 does not want the truth to get out.Just as with Stalin, people have an impression of Putin as an all-powerful dictator who controls every aspect of his country. This impression is pushed by Russian and western media, as well as Putin himself and his allies. But it's a mirage. While we think of Putin as an dictator, directly responsible for the death of journalists, we miss the point. We need to get deeper inside what make Russia a country where this kind of thing can happen.This is not to absolve Putin of responsibility for what happens in Russia. His leadership has failed to bring about a form of governance and society where the truth will out and punishment awaits the real perpetrators, and not just the small fish, as in this trial. Putin did not create this problem, but he has utterly failed to solve it.Rather ironically, Putin's biggest failure turns out to be his inability to bring order to a country still controlled at a local and national level by the power of guns and money. The much-vaunted stability that he brought to the country has been largely financial, fuelled by petrodollars, and it now appears to be unravelling as the price of oil plunges.When Putin came to power in 2000, he promised to institute a \"dictatorship of the law\". But when Medvedev became president earlier this year, he attacked the \"legal nihilism\" that pervades Russia's justice system. This lack of progress is surely one of the greatest indictments of any leader who claims to be taking his country towards democracy, as Putin does.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin has been unable to combat the chaos that caused the death of Anna Politkovskaya"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-18T21:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Today, many Russians both at home and abroad believe that the west doesn't like us. I agree: it does not. If asked why, the majority would reply, \"Russophobia\"; Russophobia in the western media, in western politics, in the prejudiced mind of the western man in the street. In other words, their attitude has got nothing to do with us; it is their fault, and theirs alone, and if they don't mend their ways their future relations with Russia are going to be rather dim.There are many interesting assumptions about the Russophobia theory. It presupposes, for example, that the west has somehow singled out Russia and the Russians for unfair treatment. And if so, then there is definitely a western \u2013 particularly American \u2013 conspiracy against Russia. But why would the Americans be interested in such a conspiracy? The majority of my compatriots would answer that it is because Russia is now strong, and the west in general, and the USA in particular, wants to weaken it.This is how many explain the current economic crisis, and this is certainly how they interpret the attitudes of the western media. I hear this from my neighbours, from my students and from my friends. Moreover, this logic has come to define not only the perceptions of lay citizens, but also the views of Russia's political elite who influence its foreign policy. But why should the west like us? A couple of months ago I read a very unflattering account of the misbehaviour of Russians abroad: rowdy, disrespectful to the locals, and crudely throwing money around. The author \u2013 a lover of Russian 19th-century literature \u2013 felt disillusioned about the descendants of Russia's 19th-century intelligentsia. To be sure, we don't all behave like this, but let's face it \u2013 many do. We may be no better or worse than other foreigners abroad, but we have to learn to own up to the behaviour of some of our compatriots. Politically, Russia has been using its newly acquired weight, disproportionately inflated by the world's demand for oil and gas, to try to pressure its neighbours into compliance with its wishes, rather than attempting to turn them into friends and allies. Of course, the Americans have been doing exactly the same since the end of the cold war \u2013 but then, as we know, this has not earned them many friends in the world, either.The allegation of Russophobia presupposes also that while the west is Russophobic, we, the Russians, do like the rest of the world, and even the west itself \u2013 because if we didn't why should we be offended by its dislike of us? But do we really like the west? All public opinion polls show that Russians' attitude to the west, the US and the UK in particular, has steadily deteriorated since the early 1990s. The coverage of these countries by most of the Russian media (and film industry) has become increasingly unfavourable, particularly since the early 2000s, and is at its worst in decades. The British media is prepared to discuss its own Russophobia on its pages, but few Russian publications would even consider publishing an article about Anglophobia in Russia. Not because it does not exist, but because the logic is that while they deserve our dislike, we do not deserve theirs. The same applies, of course, to all others who \"deserved\" Russia's wrath. Has our coverage of Georgia, Ukraine and Poland been objective? More objective than theirs of us? And what about Russia's xenophobia aimed against those foreigners who come to work in its cities and even its own citizens \u2013 the Tatars, the Chechens and other \u2013 all those who are called, disparagingly, \"blacks\"?Even if we accept this logic and assume that the west has been unfair to us (which it was, for example, at the beginning of the Georgia war \u2013 a fact that the Russian propagandists inside the country used to the utmost), than why not do something about it? If Russia loses a propaganda war abroad, than whose fault is that? There is yet another twist to the Russophobia theory. Why is it that we are particularly interested in what the west thinks of us? Why are we not equally concerned about how we appear to the public opinion in China? Or Venezuela? Or Iran? Or Zimbabwe? Is this because they are our partners or friends, and there is certainly no Russophobia there? But then it is we who choose our friends. We have to concede that the Americans and the British have the same right to choose theirs. The Russian philosopher Georgii Fedotov wrote after the first world war: \"Russian national feeling has been deeply hurt by the defeat, partition and the fall of Russia, and, unwilling to take the responsibility on itself, lacking the courage for penitence, it has begun to look for a culprit outside itself \u2013 in the west.\" His words still apply. Self-pity, righteousness and a sense of victimhood are extremely destructive for any nation. The Russophobia theory feeds into all these traits. If Russia's relations are not all that one might wish, let's not blame it on Russophobia. Russia has to take its full share of the responsibility for this.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Irina Filatova: Russia should recognise its faults"},{"date": "2008-11-21T18:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "More than once, I have listened to a Russian tell me the convoluted story of how a grandparent was killed on the personal orders of Stalin. Sometimes, I sensed they knew this was far-fetched, but this myth gave an explanation and a higher meaning to their relative's death.When a journalist and Putin critic is killed in Russia (or London), the reaction is often the same from journalists. The immediate rush to judgment is that the \"ex-KGB colonel\" is somehow involved. It certainly makes a good story that is easy to understand and excites the emotions by personalising the perpetrator.But I have never been truly convinced of Putin's involvement in a grand Kremlin plot to kill Anna Politkovskaya, a crime that finally reached court this week. When he said that she was \"very minor\", he was not so much denigrating her journalism as being callously honest \u2013 there would have been too many negatives from having her killed, not least the bad press abroad.Under Putin, as under Yeltsin, the deaths of journalists have mainly been connected with the trouble in Chechnya and Ingushetia or the investigation of shady business deals and corruption. Just this week, a local Moscow journalist was badly beaten after providing critical coverage of the local authorities. The fact that the people who ordered Politkovskaya's killing (most likely someone she was investigating in Chechnya) have not been found does not mean that the Kremlin was behind it. It means that someone with enough power \u2013 control over guns or money \u2013 does not want the truth to get out.Just as with Stalin, people have an impression of Putin as an all-powerful dictator who controls every aspect of his country. This impression is pushed by Russian and western media, as well as Putin himself and his allies. But it's a mirage. While we think of Putin as an dictator, directly responsible for the death of journalists, we miss the point. We need to get deeper inside what make Russia a country where this kind of thing can happen.This is not to absolve Putin of responsibility for what happens in Russia. His leadership has failed to bring about a form of governance and society where the truth will out and punishment awaits the real perpetrators, and not just the small fish, as in this trial. Putin did not create this problem, but he has utterly failed to solve it.Rather ironically, Putin's biggest failure turns out to be his inability to bring order to a country still controlled at a local and national level by the power of guns and money. The much-vaunted stability that he brought to the country has been largely financial, fuelled by petrodollars, and it now appears to be unravelling as the price of oil plunges.When Putin came to power in 2000, he promised to institute a \"dictatorship of the law\". But when Medvedev became president earlier this year, he attacked the \"legal nihilism\" that pervades Russia's justice system. This lack of progress is surely one of the greatest indictments of any leader who claims to be taking his country towards democracy, as Putin does.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin has been unable to combat the chaos that caused the death of Anna Politkovskaya"},{"date": "2008-11-18T14:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Friday, the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, tried to cool tension between Russia and the United States by calling on the US to abandon its drive for a European-based missile defence system, and calling on Russia to cancel deployment of ballistic missiles to the Polish border. Unfortunately, Russian and American manoeuvres have made it difficult for either country to back down.The election of Barack Obama as president of the United States has opened some space for discussion on the proposed missile defence system, as Obama is far more sceptical of missile defence than his predecessor. Russia, however, is doing itself no favours by forcing a confrontation over the missile shield. Instead, Russia has made it far more difficult for Obama to cancel the programme once in office by making him vulnerable to domestic proponents of missile defence. The Bush administration has worked frantically to make the Polish BMD base a reality before the expiration of its term in January. In spite of Obama's announced support of ballistic missile defence, the administration (and many of Obama's own backers) has suspected that Obama is not nearly as committed to missile defence as President Bush. On November 8, Denis McDonough, an Obama adviser, confirmed that Obama was not committed to following through on the deployment of a missile defence system in Poland. This contradicted an earlier statement by the Polish president, Lech Kaczynski, that Obama had promised to deploy the system. Russia has repeatedly and assertively made known its opposition to the deployment of a ballistic missile defence system in Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, Russia has provided invaluable assistance to proponents of the system. The conflict in South Ossetia jump-started the missile defence deal between Poland and the US. The agreement had languished for months, as the Poles pressed the Bush administration for further concessions. The Russian invasion of Georgia made both sides more flexible. Russia reacted aggressively to the agreement, promising to dispatch a naval taskforce for manoeuvres off Venezuela. Finally, last week President Medvedev announced that SS-26 Iskander ballistic missiles would be deployed to Kaliningrad, on the Polish border. Georgia claims that Russia used these missiles in the conflict in South Ossetia, although Russia has denied the accusation. The Iskander deployment amounts to a clumsy effort to intimidate Poland and the US into cancelling the ballistic missile defence deal. It seems quite likely that the effort will have the opposite effect, as proponents of ballistic missile defence in the US can use the Russian threats to pressure Obama into going forward with the Polish deal. Lieutenant General Trey Obering, head of the Missile Defence Agency, publicly stated on November 12 that ending the European ballistic missile programme would have dire consequences. Boeing, a key missile defence contractor, has released studies touting the economic value of missile defence to Alaska and Alabama. If Obama reneges on the Polish BMD deal, these opponents will accuse him of showing weakness in front of the Russians. It would be a pity if Obama allowed the Russians to goad him into going ahead with the Polish BMD deployment. His scepticism toward missile defence, a programme on which the US has spent billions in spite of a poor testing record and a shaky rationale, is healthy. The US and Russia would both benefit from the cancellation of the Polish deployment. Unfortunately, Russia has chosen to pursue what amounts to \"brute\" diplomacy, pursuing confrontation instead of accommodation with the US. This makes his job harder, but Obama should nevertheless resist the impulse to try to look tough on missile defence. The Russian-American relationship and the financial balance sheet of the US will benefit if Obama displays actual toughness in the face of domestic critics, rather than faux-toughness to the Russians.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Russia", "Poland", "US foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Russian move makes it hard for Obama to scale back missile defence"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-18T21:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Today, many Russians both at home and abroad believe that the west doesn't like us. I agree: it does not. If asked why, the majority would reply, \"Russophobia\"; Russophobia in the western media, in western politics, in the prejudiced mind of the western man in the street. In other words, their attitude has got nothing to do with us; it is their fault, and theirs alone, and if they don't mend their ways their future relations with Russia are going to be rather dim.There are many interesting assumptions about the Russophobia theory. It presupposes, for example, that the west has somehow singled out Russia and the Russians for unfair treatment. And if so, then there is definitely a western \u2013 particularly American \u2013 conspiracy against Russia. But why would the Americans be interested in such a conspiracy? The majority of my compatriots would answer that it is because Russia is now strong, and the west in general, and the USA in particular, wants to weaken it.This is how many explain the current economic crisis, and this is certainly how they interpret the attitudes of the western media. I hear this from my neighbours, from my students and from my friends. Moreover, this logic has come to define not only the perceptions of lay citizens, but also the views of Russia's political elite who influence its foreign policy. But why should the west like us? A couple of months ago I read a very unflattering account of the misbehaviour of Russians abroad: rowdy, disrespectful to the locals, and crudely throwing money around. The author \u2013 a lover of Russian 19th-century literature \u2013 felt disillusioned about the descendants of Russia's 19th-century intelligentsia. To be sure, we don't all behave like this, but let's face it \u2013 many do. We may be no better or worse than other foreigners abroad, but we have to learn to own up to the behaviour of some of our compatriots. Politically, Russia has been using its newly acquired weight, disproportionately inflated by the world's demand for oil and gas, to try to pressure its neighbours into compliance with its wishes, rather than attempting to turn them into friends and allies. Of course, the Americans have been doing exactly the same since the end of the cold war \u2013 but then, as we know, this has not earned them many friends in the world, either.The allegation of Russophobia presupposes also that while the west is Russophobic, we, the Russians, do like the rest of the world, and even the west itself \u2013 because if we didn't why should we be offended by its dislike of us? But do we really like the west? All public opinion polls show that Russians' attitude to the west, the US and the UK in particular, has steadily deteriorated since the early 1990s. The coverage of these countries by most of the Russian media (and film industry) has become increasingly unfavourable, particularly since the early 2000s, and is at its worst in decades. The British media is prepared to discuss its own Russophobia on its pages, but few Russian publications would even consider publishing an article about Anglophobia in Russia. Not because it does not exist, but because the logic is that while they deserve our dislike, we do not deserve theirs. The same applies, of course, to all others who \"deserved\" Russia's wrath. Has our coverage of Georgia, Ukraine and Poland been objective? More objective than theirs of us? And what about Russia's xenophobia aimed against those foreigners who come to work in its cities and even its own citizens \u2013 the Tatars, the Chechens and other \u2013 all those who are called, disparagingly, \"blacks\"?Even if we accept this logic and assume that the west has been unfair to us (which it was, for example, at the beginning of the Georgia war \u2013 a fact that the Russian propagandists inside the country used to the utmost), than why not do something about it? If Russia loses a propaganda war abroad, than whose fault is that? There is yet another twist to the Russophobia theory. Why is it that we are particularly interested in what the west thinks of us? Why are we not equally concerned about how we appear to the public opinion in China? Or Venezuela? Or Iran? Or Zimbabwe? Is this because they are our partners or friends, and there is certainly no Russophobia there? But then it is we who choose our friends. We have to concede that the Americans and the British have the same right to choose theirs. The Russian philosopher Georgii Fedotov wrote after the first world war: \"Russian national feeling has been deeply hurt by the defeat, partition and the fall of Russia, and, unwilling to take the responsibility on itself, lacking the courage for penitence, it has begun to look for a culprit outside itself \u2013 in the west.\" His words still apply. Self-pity, righteousness and a sense of victimhood are extremely destructive for any nation. The Russophobia theory feeds into all these traits. If Russia's relations are not all that one might wish, let's not blame it on Russophobia. Russia has to take its full share of the responsibility for this.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Irina Filatova: Russia should recognise its faults"},{"date": "2008-11-21T18:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "More than once, I have listened to a Russian tell me the convoluted story of how a grandparent was killed on the personal orders of Stalin. Sometimes, I sensed they knew this was far-fetched, but this myth gave an explanation and a higher meaning to their relative's death.When a journalist and Putin critic is killed in Russia (or London), the reaction is often the same from journalists. The immediate rush to judgment is that the \"ex-KGB colonel\" is somehow involved. It certainly makes a good story that is easy to understand and excites the emotions by personalising the perpetrator.But I have never been truly convinced of Putin's involvement in a grand Kremlin plot to kill Anna Politkovskaya, a crime that finally reached court this week. When he said that she was \"very minor\", he was not so much denigrating her journalism as being callously honest \u2013 there would have been too many negatives from having her killed, not least the bad press abroad.Under Putin, as under Yeltsin, the deaths of journalists have mainly been connected with the trouble in Chechnya and Ingushetia or the investigation of shady business deals and corruption. Just this week, a local Moscow journalist was badly beaten after providing critical coverage of the local authorities. The fact that the people who ordered Politkovskaya's killing (most likely someone she was investigating in Chechnya) have not been found does not mean that the Kremlin was behind it. It means that someone with enough power \u2013 control over guns or money \u2013 does not want the truth to get out.Just as with Stalin, people have an impression of Putin as an all-powerful dictator who controls every aspect of his country. This impression is pushed by Russian and western media, as well as Putin himself and his allies. But it's a mirage. While we think of Putin as an dictator, directly responsible for the death of journalists, we miss the point. We need to get deeper inside what make Russia a country where this kind of thing can happen.This is not to absolve Putin of responsibility for what happens in Russia. His leadership has failed to bring about a form of governance and society where the truth will out and punishment awaits the real perpetrators, and not just the small fish, as in this trial. Putin did not create this problem, but he has utterly failed to solve it.Rather ironically, Putin's biggest failure turns out to be his inability to bring order to a country still controlled at a local and national level by the power of guns and money. The much-vaunted stability that he brought to the country has been largely financial, fuelled by petrodollars, and it now appears to be unravelling as the price of oil plunges.When Putin came to power in 2000, he promised to institute a \"dictatorship of the law\". But when Medvedev became president earlier this year, he attacked the \"legal nihilism\" that pervades Russia's justice system. This lack of progress is surely one of the greatest indictments of any leader who claims to be taking his country towards democracy, as Putin does.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin has been unable to combat the chaos that caused the death of Anna Politkovskaya"},{"date": "2008-11-18T14:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Friday, the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, tried to cool tension between Russia and the United States by calling on the US to abandon its drive for a European-based missile defence system, and calling on Russia to cancel deployment of ballistic missiles to the Polish border. Unfortunately, Russian and American manoeuvres have made it difficult for either country to back down.The election of Barack Obama as president of the United States has opened some space for discussion on the proposed missile defence system, as Obama is far more sceptical of missile defence than his predecessor. Russia, however, is doing itself no favours by forcing a confrontation over the missile shield. Instead, Russia has made it far more difficult for Obama to cancel the programme once in office by making him vulnerable to domestic proponents of missile defence. The Bush administration has worked frantically to make the Polish BMD base a reality before the expiration of its term in January. In spite of Obama's announced support of ballistic missile defence, the administration (and many of Obama's own backers) has suspected that Obama is not nearly as committed to missile defence as President Bush. On November 8, Denis McDonough, an Obama adviser, confirmed that Obama was not committed to following through on the deployment of a missile defence system in Poland. This contradicted an earlier statement by the Polish president, Lech Kaczynski, that Obama had promised to deploy the system. Russia has repeatedly and assertively made known its opposition to the deployment of a ballistic missile defence system in Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, Russia has provided invaluable assistance to proponents of the system. The conflict in South Ossetia jump-started the missile defence deal between Poland and the US. The agreement had languished for months, as the Poles pressed the Bush administration for further concessions. The Russian invasion of Georgia made both sides more flexible. Russia reacted aggressively to the agreement, promising to dispatch a naval taskforce for manoeuvres off Venezuela. Finally, last week President Medvedev announced that SS-26 Iskander ballistic missiles would be deployed to Kaliningrad, on the Polish border. Georgia claims that Russia used these missiles in the conflict in South Ossetia, although Russia has denied the accusation. The Iskander deployment amounts to a clumsy effort to intimidate Poland and the US into cancelling the ballistic missile defence deal. It seems quite likely that the effort will have the opposite effect, as proponents of ballistic missile defence in the US can use the Russian threats to pressure Obama into going forward with the Polish deal. Lieutenant General Trey Obering, head of the Missile Defence Agency, publicly stated on November 12 that ending the European ballistic missile programme would have dire consequences. Boeing, a key missile defence contractor, has released studies touting the economic value of missile defence to Alaska and Alabama. If Obama reneges on the Polish BMD deal, these opponents will accuse him of showing weakness in front of the Russians. It would be a pity if Obama allowed the Russians to goad him into going ahead with the Polish BMD deployment. His scepticism toward missile defence, a programme on which the US has spent billions in spite of a poor testing record and a shaky rationale, is healthy. The US and Russia would both benefit from the cancellation of the Polish deployment. Unfortunately, Russia has chosen to pursue what amounts to \"brute\" diplomacy, pursuing confrontation instead of accommodation with the US. This makes his job harder, but Obama should nevertheless resist the impulse to try to look tough on missile defence. The Russian-American relationship and the financial balance sheet of the US will benefit if Obama displays actual toughness in the face of domestic critics, rather than faux-toughness to the Russians.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Russia", "Poland", "US foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Russian move makes it hard for Obama to scale back missile defence"},{"date": "2008-11-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\"In the days of the great struggle against the foreign enemies, who for nearly three years have tried to enslave our fatherland, the Lord God has been pleased to send down on Russia a new heavy trial. Internal popular disturbances threaten to have a disastrous effect on the future conduct of this persistent war.The destiny of Russia, the honour of our heroic army, the welfare of the people and the whole future of our dear fatherland demand that the war should be brought to a victorious conclusion whatever the cost. The cruel enemy is making his last efforts, and already the hour approaches when our glorious army, together with our gallant allies, will crush him. In these decisive days in the life of Russia, We thought it our duty of conscience to facilitate for our people the closest union possible and a consolidation of all national forces for the speedy attainment of victory.In agreement with the Imperial Duma we have thought it well to renounce the throne of the Russian Empire and to lay down the supreme power. As We do not wish to part from our beloved son, We transmit the succession to our brother, the Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich, and give him our blessing to mount the throne of the Russian Empire.\"In the name of our dearly beloved homeland, we call on our faithful sons of the fatherland to fulfil their sacred duty to the fatherland, to obey the tsar in the heavy moment of national trials, and to help him, together with the representatives of the people, to guide the Russian Empire on the road to victory, welfare, and glory. May the Lord God help Russia!\u2022 Nicholas II signed his abdication on March 15 1917 at 3.05pm. He and his family were all murdered by the Bolsheviks on July 17 1918.The Workers' and Peasants' government, created by the revolution of October 24-25, and drawing its strength from the Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies, proposes to all warring peoples and their governments to begin at once negotiations leading to a just democratic peace.A just and democratic peace for which the great majority of wearied, tormented and war-exhausted toilers and labouring classes of all belligerent countries are thirsting; a peace which the Russian workers and peasants have so loudly and insistently demanded since the overthrow of the tsar's monarchy; such a peace the government considers to be an immediate peace without annexations (ie, without the seizure of foreign territory and the forcible annexation of foreign nationalities) and without indemnities.The government considers that to continue this war simply to decide how to divide the weak nationalities among the powerful and rich nations which had seized them would be the greatest crime against humanity, and it solemnly announces its readiness to sign at once the terms of peace which will end this war on the indicated conditions, equally just for all nationalities without exception.The government abolishes secret diplomacy, expressing, for its part, the firm determination to carry on all negotiations absolutely openly and in view of all the people ... In making these peace proposals to the government and peoples of all warring countries, the Provisional Government of Workers and Peasants of Russia appeals particularly to the class-conscious workers of the three most advanced nations of mankind, who are also the largest states participating in the present war - England, France and Germany.The workers of these countries have rendered the greatest possible service to the cause of progress and socialism by the great example of the Chartist movement in England, several revolutions of universal historic significance accomplished by the French proletariat, and, finally, the heroic struggle against the Law of Exceptions in Germany, a struggle which was prolonged, dogged and disciplined, which could be held up as an example for the workers of the whole world, and which aimed at the creation of proletarian mass organisations in Germany.All these examples of proletarian heroism and historic achievement serve us as a guarantee that the workers of these three countries will understand the tasks which lie before them by way of liberating humanity from the horrors of war and its consequences, and that by their resolute, unselfishly energetic efforts in various directions, these workers will help us to bring to a successful end the cause of peace, and, together with this, the cause of the liberation of the toiling and exploited masses from all forms of slavery and all exploitation.We have to fight against the hypocrisy of the governments, which, while talking about peace and justice, actually carry on wars of conquest and plunder. Not one single government will tell you what it really means. But we are opposed to secret diplomacy and can afford to act openly before all people. We do not now close, nor have we ever closed, our eyes to the difficulties.Wars cannot be ended by a refusal [to fight]; they cannot be ended by one side alone. We are proposing an armistice for three months - though not rejecting a shorter period - so that this will give the suffering army at least a breathing spell, and will make possible the calling of popular meetings in all civilised countries to discuss the conditions [of peace].\u2022 Delivered at second All-Russia Congress of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies, October 26 1917. On November 8, Lenin was elected chair of the Council of People's Commissars by the Russian Congress of Soviets.", "tags": ["First world war", "Vladimir Lenin"], "title": "First world war: Revolution turns Russia towards peace"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-18T21:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Today, many Russians both at home and abroad believe that the west doesn't like us. I agree: it does not. If asked why, the majority would reply, \"Russophobia\"; Russophobia in the western media, in western politics, in the prejudiced mind of the western man in the street. In other words, their attitude has got nothing to do with us; it is their fault, and theirs alone, and if they don't mend their ways their future relations with Russia are going to be rather dim.There are many interesting assumptions about the Russophobia theory. It presupposes, for example, that the west has somehow singled out Russia and the Russians for unfair treatment. And if so, then there is definitely a western \u2013 particularly American \u2013 conspiracy against Russia. But why would the Americans be interested in such a conspiracy? The majority of my compatriots would answer that it is because Russia is now strong, and the west in general, and the USA in particular, wants to weaken it.This is how many explain the current economic crisis, and this is certainly how they interpret the attitudes of the western media. I hear this from my neighbours, from my students and from my friends. Moreover, this logic has come to define not only the perceptions of lay citizens, but also the views of Russia's political elite who influence its foreign policy. But why should the west like us? A couple of months ago I read a very unflattering account of the misbehaviour of Russians abroad: rowdy, disrespectful to the locals, and crudely throwing money around. The author \u2013 a lover of Russian 19th-century literature \u2013 felt disillusioned about the descendants of Russia's 19th-century intelligentsia. To be sure, we don't all behave like this, but let's face it \u2013 many do. We may be no better or worse than other foreigners abroad, but we have to learn to own up to the behaviour of some of our compatriots. Politically, Russia has been using its newly acquired weight, disproportionately inflated by the world's demand for oil and gas, to try to pressure its neighbours into compliance with its wishes, rather than attempting to turn them into friends and allies. Of course, the Americans have been doing exactly the same since the end of the cold war \u2013 but then, as we know, this has not earned them many friends in the world, either.The allegation of Russophobia presupposes also that while the west is Russophobic, we, the Russians, do like the rest of the world, and even the west itself \u2013 because if we didn't why should we be offended by its dislike of us? But do we really like the west? All public opinion polls show that Russians' attitude to the west, the US and the UK in particular, has steadily deteriorated since the early 1990s. The coverage of these countries by most of the Russian media (and film industry) has become increasingly unfavourable, particularly since the early 2000s, and is at its worst in decades. The British media is prepared to discuss its own Russophobia on its pages, but few Russian publications would even consider publishing an article about Anglophobia in Russia. Not because it does not exist, but because the logic is that while they deserve our dislike, we do not deserve theirs. The same applies, of course, to all others who \"deserved\" Russia's wrath. Has our coverage of Georgia, Ukraine and Poland been objective? More objective than theirs of us? And what about Russia's xenophobia aimed against those foreigners who come to work in its cities and even its own citizens \u2013 the Tatars, the Chechens and other \u2013 all those who are called, disparagingly, \"blacks\"?Even if we accept this logic and assume that the west has been unfair to us (which it was, for example, at the beginning of the Georgia war \u2013 a fact that the Russian propagandists inside the country used to the utmost), than why not do something about it? If Russia loses a propaganda war abroad, than whose fault is that? There is yet another twist to the Russophobia theory. Why is it that we are particularly interested in what the west thinks of us? Why are we not equally concerned about how we appear to the public opinion in China? Or Venezuela? Or Iran? Or Zimbabwe? Is this because they are our partners or friends, and there is certainly no Russophobia there? But then it is we who choose our friends. We have to concede that the Americans and the British have the same right to choose theirs. The Russian philosopher Georgii Fedotov wrote after the first world war: \"Russian national feeling has been deeply hurt by the defeat, partition and the fall of Russia, and, unwilling to take the responsibility on itself, lacking the courage for penitence, it has begun to look for a culprit outside itself \u2013 in the west.\" His words still apply. Self-pity, righteousness and a sense of victimhood are extremely destructive for any nation. The Russophobia theory feeds into all these traits. If Russia's relations are not all that one might wish, let's not blame it on Russophobia. Russia has to take its full share of the responsibility for this.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Irina Filatova: Russia should recognise its faults"},{"date": "2008-11-21T18:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "More than once, I have listened to a Russian tell me the convoluted story of how a grandparent was killed on the personal orders of Stalin. Sometimes, I sensed they knew this was far-fetched, but this myth gave an explanation and a higher meaning to their relative's death.When a journalist and Putin critic is killed in Russia (or London), the reaction is often the same from journalists. The immediate rush to judgment is that the \"ex-KGB colonel\" is somehow involved. It certainly makes a good story that is easy to understand and excites the emotions by personalising the perpetrator.But I have never been truly convinced of Putin's involvement in a grand Kremlin plot to kill Anna Politkovskaya, a crime that finally reached court this week. When he said that she was \"very minor\", he was not so much denigrating her journalism as being callously honest \u2013 there would have been too many negatives from having her killed, not least the bad press abroad.Under Putin, as under Yeltsin, the deaths of journalists have mainly been connected with the trouble in Chechnya and Ingushetia or the investigation of shady business deals and corruption. Just this week, a local Moscow journalist was badly beaten after providing critical coverage of the local authorities. The fact that the people who ordered Politkovskaya's killing (most likely someone she was investigating in Chechnya) have not been found does not mean that the Kremlin was behind it. It means that someone with enough power \u2013 control over guns or money \u2013 does not want the truth to get out.Just as with Stalin, people have an impression of Putin as an all-powerful dictator who controls every aspect of his country. This impression is pushed by Russian and western media, as well as Putin himself and his allies. But it's a mirage. While we think of Putin as an dictator, directly responsible for the death of journalists, we miss the point. We need to get deeper inside what make Russia a country where this kind of thing can happen.This is not to absolve Putin of responsibility for what happens in Russia. His leadership has failed to bring about a form of governance and society where the truth will out and punishment awaits the real perpetrators, and not just the small fish, as in this trial. Putin did not create this problem, but he has utterly failed to solve it.Rather ironically, Putin's biggest failure turns out to be his inability to bring order to a country still controlled at a local and national level by the power of guns and money. The much-vaunted stability that he brought to the country has been largely financial, fuelled by petrodollars, and it now appears to be unravelling as the price of oil plunges.When Putin came to power in 2000, he promised to institute a \"dictatorship of the law\". But when Medvedev became president earlier this year, he attacked the \"legal nihilism\" that pervades Russia's justice system. This lack of progress is surely one of the greatest indictments of any leader who claims to be taking his country towards democracy, as Putin does.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin has been unable to combat the chaos that caused the death of Anna Politkovskaya"},{"date": "2008-11-18T14:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Friday, the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, tried to cool tension between Russia and the United States by calling on the US to abandon its drive for a European-based missile defence system, and calling on Russia to cancel deployment of ballistic missiles to the Polish border. Unfortunately, Russian and American manoeuvres have made it difficult for either country to back down.The election of Barack Obama as president of the United States has opened some space for discussion on the proposed missile defence system, as Obama is far more sceptical of missile defence than his predecessor. Russia, however, is doing itself no favours by forcing a confrontation over the missile shield. Instead, Russia has made it far more difficult for Obama to cancel the programme once in office by making him vulnerable to domestic proponents of missile defence. The Bush administration has worked frantically to make the Polish BMD base a reality before the expiration of its term in January. In spite of Obama's announced support of ballistic missile defence, the administration (and many of Obama's own backers) has suspected that Obama is not nearly as committed to missile defence as President Bush. On November 8, Denis McDonough, an Obama adviser, confirmed that Obama was not committed to following through on the deployment of a missile defence system in Poland. This contradicted an earlier statement by the Polish president, Lech Kaczynski, that Obama had promised to deploy the system. Russia has repeatedly and assertively made known its opposition to the deployment of a ballistic missile defence system in Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, Russia has provided invaluable assistance to proponents of the system. The conflict in South Ossetia jump-started the missile defence deal between Poland and the US. The agreement had languished for months, as the Poles pressed the Bush administration for further concessions. The Russian invasion of Georgia made both sides more flexible. Russia reacted aggressively to the agreement, promising to dispatch a naval taskforce for manoeuvres off Venezuela. Finally, last week President Medvedev announced that SS-26 Iskander ballistic missiles would be deployed to Kaliningrad, on the Polish border. Georgia claims that Russia used these missiles in the conflict in South Ossetia, although Russia has denied the accusation. The Iskander deployment amounts to a clumsy effort to intimidate Poland and the US into cancelling the ballistic missile defence deal. It seems quite likely that the effort will have the opposite effect, as proponents of ballistic missile defence in the US can use the Russian threats to pressure Obama into going forward with the Polish deal. Lieutenant General Trey Obering, head of the Missile Defence Agency, publicly stated on November 12 that ending the European ballistic missile programme would have dire consequences. Boeing, a key missile defence contractor, has released studies touting the economic value of missile defence to Alaska and Alabama. If Obama reneges on the Polish BMD deal, these opponents will accuse him of showing weakness in front of the Russians. It would be a pity if Obama allowed the Russians to goad him into going ahead with the Polish BMD deployment. His scepticism toward missile defence, a programme on which the US has spent billions in spite of a poor testing record and a shaky rationale, is healthy. The US and Russia would both benefit from the cancellation of the Polish deployment. Unfortunately, Russia has chosen to pursue what amounts to \"brute\" diplomacy, pursuing confrontation instead of accommodation with the US. This makes his job harder, but Obama should nevertheless resist the impulse to try to look tough on missile defence. The Russian-American relationship and the financial balance sheet of the US will benefit if Obama displays actual toughness in the face of domestic critics, rather than faux-toughness to the Russians.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Russia", "Poland", "US foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Russian move makes it hard for Obama to scale back missile defence"},{"date": "2008-11-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\"In the days of the great struggle against the foreign enemies, who for nearly three years have tried to enslave our fatherland, the Lord God has been pleased to send down on Russia a new heavy trial. Internal popular disturbances threaten to have a disastrous effect on the future conduct of this persistent war.The destiny of Russia, the honour of our heroic army, the welfare of the people and the whole future of our dear fatherland demand that the war should be brought to a victorious conclusion whatever the cost. The cruel enemy is making his last efforts, and already the hour approaches when our glorious army, together with our gallant allies, will crush him. In these decisive days in the life of Russia, We thought it our duty of conscience to facilitate for our people the closest union possible and a consolidation of all national forces for the speedy attainment of victory.In agreement with the Imperial Duma we have thought it well to renounce the throne of the Russian Empire and to lay down the supreme power. As We do not wish to part from our beloved son, We transmit the succession to our brother, the Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich, and give him our blessing to mount the throne of the Russian Empire.\"In the name of our dearly beloved homeland, we call on our faithful sons of the fatherland to fulfil their sacred duty to the fatherland, to obey the tsar in the heavy moment of national trials, and to help him, together with the representatives of the people, to guide the Russian Empire on the road to victory, welfare, and glory. May the Lord God help Russia!\u2022 Nicholas II signed his abdication on March 15 1917 at 3.05pm. He and his family were all murdered by the Bolsheviks on July 17 1918.The Workers' and Peasants' government, created by the revolution of October 24-25, and drawing its strength from the Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies, proposes to all warring peoples and their governments to begin at once negotiations leading to a just democratic peace.A just and democratic peace for which the great majority of wearied, tormented and war-exhausted toilers and labouring classes of all belligerent countries are thirsting; a peace which the Russian workers and peasants have so loudly and insistently demanded since the overthrow of the tsar's monarchy; such a peace the government considers to be an immediate peace without annexations (ie, without the seizure of foreign territory and the forcible annexation of foreign nationalities) and without indemnities.The government considers that to continue this war simply to decide how to divide the weak nationalities among the powerful and rich nations which had seized them would be the greatest crime against humanity, and it solemnly announces its readiness to sign at once the terms of peace which will end this war on the indicated conditions, equally just for all nationalities without exception.The government abolishes secret diplomacy, expressing, for its part, the firm determination to carry on all negotiations absolutely openly and in view of all the people ... In making these peace proposals to the government and peoples of all warring countries, the Provisional Government of Workers and Peasants of Russia appeals particularly to the class-conscious workers of the three most advanced nations of mankind, who are also the largest states participating in the present war - England, France and Germany.The workers of these countries have rendered the greatest possible service to the cause of progress and socialism by the great example of the Chartist movement in England, several revolutions of universal historic significance accomplished by the French proletariat, and, finally, the heroic struggle against the Law of Exceptions in Germany, a struggle which was prolonged, dogged and disciplined, which could be held up as an example for the workers of the whole world, and which aimed at the creation of proletarian mass organisations in Germany.All these examples of proletarian heroism and historic achievement serve us as a guarantee that the workers of these three countries will understand the tasks which lie before them by way of liberating humanity from the horrors of war and its consequences, and that by their resolute, unselfishly energetic efforts in various directions, these workers will help us to bring to a successful end the cause of peace, and, together with this, the cause of the liberation of the toiling and exploited masses from all forms of slavery and all exploitation.We have to fight against the hypocrisy of the governments, which, while talking about peace and justice, actually carry on wars of conquest and plunder. Not one single government will tell you what it really means. But we are opposed to secret diplomacy and can afford to act openly before all people. We do not now close, nor have we ever closed, our eyes to the difficulties.Wars cannot be ended by a refusal [to fight]; they cannot be ended by one side alone. We are proposing an armistice for three months - though not rejecting a shorter period - so that this will give the suffering army at least a breathing spell, and will make possible the calling of popular meetings in all civilised countries to discuss the conditions [of peace].\u2022 Delivered at second All-Russia Congress of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies, October 26 1917. On November 8, Lenin was elected chair of the Council of People's Commissars by the Russian Congress of Soviets.", "tags": ["First world war", "Vladimir Lenin"], "title": "First world war: Revolution turns Russia towards peace"},{"date": "2008-11-13T17:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Tomorrow, EU heads of government will resume talks with Russia on a new EU partnership agreement. Both the EU and Russia would find it useful, but it is vital to neither for a good deal of trade and dialogue to continue. Yet this decision is of enormous symbolic importance.Restarting talks effectively means a return to business as usual between Europe and Russia \u2013 the lightest of slapped wrists for Russian aggression. That is a major strategic error whose significance will be noted not just by Russia and its neighbours, but around the world.On August 12 President Sarkozy, representing the whole European Union, helped bring the Georgian war to an end with a six-point ceasefire agreement that Russia and Georgia signed up to.Russia has failed to meet those obligations. In breach of the ceasefire, Russian troops have still not returned to the positions they held before the war, a point EU heads of government again made a specific condition for resuming talks at the September 1 EU summit.Instead, Russia has stationed thousands of troops in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, including in areas where there were no Russian troops present before the war. EU peace monitors have been denied entry to those territories. In breach of UN resolutions guaranteeing Georgian territorial integrity, the Kremlin has unilaterally recognised the two breakaway territories' independence and is now allowing them to block progress in international talks to settle the conflict.As I saw for myself when I visited Georgian refugees three weeks ago, Russia has also failed to safeguard the return of ethnic Georgian refugees to their homes in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The latest report from the NGO Human Rights Watch accuses Russia of doing nothing to protect Georgian civilians from militia. Less than a decade since we last said \"Never again\" to ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, it has happened again on Europe's borders.Granted, it is widely agreed that the wisdom of Georgia's actions was doubtful, notwithstanding the series of likely calculated provocations they were subject to. It is equally accepted that Russia's response was severely disproportionate and excessively violent.This background made Monday's decision on EU-Russia negotiations a major test of the European Union's resolve and clarity. If European countries working together through the EU hope to be taken seriously in the world they must show themselves capable of consistency, perseverance and strategic patience. The EU has ended up displaying extraordinary weakness by not just failing to enforce the terms of a ceasefire it brokered just three months ago but even seeming willing to let its terms slide entirely.The EU can still move forward from this depressing situation. First, there should at least be no final agreement on a new partnership until Russia meets its ceasefire obligation in full, with no fudges, and facilitates the return of refugees to their homes.Secondly, the EU should play its part in enforcing international law in the breakaway regions. There have been numerous UN resolutions, signed by Russia, that recognise them as sovereign Georgian territory. So there should be visa, travel and financial restrictions on individuals and companies doing business in South Ossetia and Abkhazia without lawful authorisation from the Georgian government.Thirdly, European countries must act to remove Russia's ability to exert undue influence on European policies through energy. Greater security of supply is essential. This means, partly, diversifying sources of supply from outside Europe and putting right the government's failure to ensure we have sufficient gas storage to withstand external supply shortages.It also means doing things the EU should in any case have done long ago: completing the single market in energy and allowing energy to flow freely across the EU by helping to build interconnectors. So today's proposal from the European Commission for an EU energy security plan is timely and merits serious and urgent consideration.Taken together, those measures would ensure that Russia pays a political price for its aggression towards Georgia. They would make a just political resolution in Abkhazia and South Ossetia more feasible. They would enhance Europe's joint strength and security.We, and more broadly Europe, rightly want a positive and constructive relationship with Russia. More than half of Russia's trade is with the EU. Last year Russia was the largest foreign investor raising money on the London Stock Exchange and Britain is now the largest foreign investor in Russia. That is a mutually beneficial relationship and we want to see it prosper. We want Russia to enjoy stability in the northern Caucasus and we need to work with Russia on Iran. But it would be a serious error and a mark of feebleness and irresolution for Europe to let Russia set the terms of that relationship.After the slow start the government had taken a properly robust stand on Russia's actions. In response to questioning in the Commons by David Cameron and myself the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary gave specific guarantees that there would be no talks until Russia had met its obligations and let refugees go home.Many other EU member states expressed the view that a revival of partnership talks was unwarranted and would send completely the wrong message to Russia. They have found themselves let down by the British government's reversal on the issue. The government's U-turn over the past week has been a culpable failure of British leadership. It will be remembered, and Britain's reputation for reliability and steadfastness has suffered.", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Georgia", "International trade", "International Power", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "William Hague: Europe is showing weakness in trade talks with Russia"},{"date": "2008-12-30T09:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The results of the \"Name of Russia\" poll \u2013 in which 50 million people voted by SMS, internet and telephone for who they thought to be the greatest Russian \u2013 have been announced. Ridiculous as these things sound, they do reflect the \"state of the nation\". Or \"the youth of the nation\", to be precise, since electronic voting is mostly practiced by younger groups.It is noteworthy who is in and who is out. Cultural and scientific geniuses did not feature very high in the land of Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. Alexandr Pushkin may be the greatest poet of Russia, but millions remember how they had to memorise his verses by heart, not always getting the meaning, and recite to fearsome teachers the next morning. So he gets the fourth place. Worse for Dmitrii Mendeleev (ninth place), the creator of Periodic Table of Elements \u2013 didn't we suffer enough in chemistry lessons? Instead, Alexandr Nevsky, a 13th century Russian prince who fought the Swedish and German invaders, came first. Voting for Nevsky is like voting for William the Conqueror: he is the first truly famous national historical figure and too distant to have controversy about him. Most Russians have a very vague recollection of what the prince actually did, apart from drowning some Teutonic knights in a lake. They draw their image of Nevsky from a Braveheart-style Soviet classic glorifying the Russian past. The prince is famed for the phrase seen on the screen: \"He who comes to us with a sword, will die of a sword\". Now the representatives of the Union of Christian Orthodox Citizens argue that the phrase should be adopted as a motto for the FSB (internal intelligence agency), while the prince is to be made the agency's patron saint.Stalin (third place) consistently generates public appeal, although not on the same scale as in his native Georgia. The reasons are not terribly sophisticated and mostly work for the young. Stalin is associated with the Soviet victory in the second world war and with the USSR's superpower status, held in high esteem on the world arena, in sharp contrast with the international humiliation of the 1990s. Moreover, Stalin is becoming more of a celebrity cult figure, with aesthetics of the period undergoing a revival. The vote for Stalin is less about approval of his actual rule, but more about the images of grandeur, Kalashnikovs and the Red Star, which made the Soviets world-famous. The power of televised lobbying was also apparent in the poll. When voters started to swing to put Stalin in the first place, elite figures geared into action. Prince Nevsky was effectively lobbied for by mytropolit Kirill reflecting the growing cultural influence of the church. The Burnt by the Sun director Nikita Mikhalkov advocated for Stolypin, a modernising reformer of the early 20th century under the last Tsar, who came only a short distance after the prince. This may tell us more about Mikhalkov's powers of persuasion than Stolypin's agricultural reforms. In the meantime, no Soviet or Russian reformist politicians (current rulers were excluded), such as Khrustshev, Gorbachev or Yeltsin, made it in the poll. Voting for a fairy-tale Nevsky means that segments of the public prefer the symbols of glory to harsh realities. The state of the nation is of escapism, while national history is held in high esteem \u2013 especially if it is too distant to be remembered. Indeed, if such a poll were to be done in this country, which place would Shakespeare come in?", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Anna Matveeva: Young Russians seem polls apart"},{"date": "2008-12-11T18:31:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin's power and popularity in Russia was built on a simple political model: a large carrot and a large stick. The carrot was Russia's consumption boom fuelled by oil revenues. The large stick was his centralised, authoritarian control over political life, from the quashing of other political voices to the control of the media, which has painted an excessively rosy picture of the country, linking Putin with all the successes and blaming the west or Yeltsin's so-called democracy for all the problems.These two factors came together to destroy politics in Russia. No one was interested in options other than Putin's plan, as people could see on the TV and feel in their pockets what a good job he was doing. Putin didn't even have to crush all voices of dissent \u2013 there are a small number of magazines and newspapers that have critical coverage of the authorities, but hardly anyone reads them. Nor did anyone pay much attention when other voices were crushed. Why rock the boat when it's sailing along so nicely?But the crisis is hurting Russia, and threatening this political model. The country's foreign currency reserves have dropped by a quarter, GDP growth is slowing and there is talk of a budget deficit next year. According to a recent poll, 20% of the working population have been laid off, faced cuts in their salaries or delays in getting paid during the crisis. The carrot is fast disappearing.The stick is also beginning to look increasingly flimsy. Control of TV coverage is all well and good when what is shown bears semblance to reality. But it's hard to play down the present crisis, although the Kremlin is doing its best by heaping criticism on the US, while blacklisting certain words, such as \"crisis\" and \"collapse,\" from coverage about Russia. But is it possible to believe there is no crisis when your friend loses their job, your salary is cut and your neighbour's home is repossessed?The crisis threatens to reveal the glaring failure of Putin's reign to take advantage of strong economic growth and relative stability to push forward with modernisation and reform. While Putin's \"power vertical\" allowed him to take credit for the country's economic progress in the last few years, the situation is now reversed. As the Kremlin is the only political and economic decision-maker in the country, the blame for the problems could begin to fall on the same man as the praise did.It is not clear how society will react to the consequences of the crisis. How will the newly wealthy middle class react to losing their jobs, cars and foreign holidays? Will it encourage them to push for economic and political reform? Social and political scientist Yevgeny Gontmakher caused a stir with a recent article in the respected daily Vedomosti, in which he imagined a scenario he called Novocherkassk-2009. (Novocherkassk is the city where protests against food price rises led to a massacre in 1962.) Gontmakher's scenario begins with the shutting down of a large local factory, which leads to protests that the local authorities are unable to deal with. Moscow \u2013 Russia's only real decision maker in the \"power vertical\" \u2013 is forced to make a decision: negotiate or use force? As a result of the article, Vedomosti was censured by the Federation on the Supervision of Communications and Mass Media for publishing material that may be interpreted as inciting extremist acts. \"Extremism\" is the Kremlin's word for any kind of protest or opposition.An indication that politics may be returning came from an interesting recent spat between president Dmitry Medvedev and Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov, a leading member of Putin's United Russia party. Luzhkov recently called for the return of direct gubernatorial elections (under Putin, regional governors were appointed). He was on solid ground, given that a recent survey revealed 63% of Russians are in favour of returning to a system of elections.Medvedev's response was to say that anyone who wants to see elections return can tender his resignation.The censuring of Luzhkov and Vedomosti demonstrates the inflexibility of Putin's political model and gives us an idea of what to expect in the next few months. There is no space for any voice other than the Kremlin's. Any differing opinions or protests will be swiftly shut down. No one knows how long the crisis is going to continue or how bad it's going to get. But the messier things get, the more Putin and Medvedev risk being left with a heavy reliance on the uglier side of their political model: less carrot means more stick.", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin and Medvedev are in trouble"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If you're wondering about the viability of ballet as a living art form, go and see the Mariinsky Ballet dance the work of William Forsythe. This programme launches Focus on Forsythe, the Sadler's Wells retrospective of the choreographer's work which continues with performances of Impressing the Czar by the Royal Ballet of Flanders in November and culminates in April with three weeks of staged works and installations.Forsythe's work pushes classical dance to new boundaries and meshes perfectly with the Mariinsky Ballet's need to redefine itself in a post-Soviet world. Despite decades of poor leadership - artistic director Oleg Vinogradov was arrested for corruption in 1995, and conditions under Valery Gergiev, general director since 1996, have been notoriously thankless - the famous Mariinsky schooling somehow remains intact. Forsythe is a New Yorker and a high priest of the European avant garde but the roots of his work lead back, via Balanchine, to St Petersburg. There's a continuum, and watching the Mariinsky dancers perform his ballets, you see uncanny flashes of family likeness. In Steptext (1985), an acid-sharp distillation of the performance experience, three male dancers propel Ekaterina Kondaurova through fractured passages of Bach. The men patrol the stage like enforcers, communicating moves and angles to each other through a kind of manual tic-tac before engaging Kondaurova in a series of brutally intense duets. With their weird torsions and beyond-vertical arabesques, these seem almost sacrificial, but they represent extremes for which the ballerina clearly hungers.We meet Kondaurova again at the evening's end, prowling the stage like a bored lioness as Thom Willems' score for In The Middle, Somewhat Elevated crashes about her. Kondaurova shares the female lead with Irina Golub, a silky young principal who brings a considerable erotic charge to her pas de deux with Mikhail Lobukhin, despite the latter's psychopathic-looking hair-do - what is it, exactly, with Russians and peroxide? Middle is a tough ballet but the Mariinsky dancers rip through it with nonchalance. The women in particular, their tights worn so low over their dragonfly-green leotards as to barely skim their pubic bones, are unrecognisable as their more classical selves. One of the most distinctive is corps-de-ballet dancer Anastasia Petushkova. Long-legged and soft-backed in the classic Mariinsky mould, Petushkova mooches through the shadows with a secretive half-smile before calmly unfolding the most audacious extensions and turns.These pieces bracket Approximate Sonata, a subdued eight-hander of which only Anton Pimonov and the rangy Petrushkova get the full measure, and Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, a slice of high-velocity classicism set to Schubert. This is what the Mariinsky dancers do better than anyone, and taking the piece at breakneck speed, they carve it to ribbons.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "Culture", "Mariinsky Ballet"], "title": "Dance review: Mariinsky Ballet / Sadler's Wells, London"},{"date": "2008-12-18T21:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Today, many Russians both at home and abroad believe that the west doesn't like us. I agree: it does not. If asked why, the majority would reply, \"Russophobia\"; Russophobia in the western media, in western politics, in the prejudiced mind of the western man in the street. In other words, their attitude has got nothing to do with us; it is their fault, and theirs alone, and if they don't mend their ways their future relations with Russia are going to be rather dim.There are many interesting assumptions about the Russophobia theory. It presupposes, for example, that the west has somehow singled out Russia and the Russians for unfair treatment. And if so, then there is definitely a western \u2013 particularly American \u2013 conspiracy against Russia. But why would the Americans be interested in such a conspiracy? The majority of my compatriots would answer that it is because Russia is now strong, and the west in general, and the USA in particular, wants to weaken it.This is how many explain the current economic crisis, and this is certainly how they interpret the attitudes of the western media. I hear this from my neighbours, from my students and from my friends. Moreover, this logic has come to define not only the perceptions of lay citizens, but also the views of Russia's political elite who influence its foreign policy. But why should the west like us? A couple of months ago I read a very unflattering account of the misbehaviour of Russians abroad: rowdy, disrespectful to the locals, and crudely throwing money around. The author \u2013 a lover of Russian 19th-century literature \u2013 felt disillusioned about the descendants of Russia's 19th-century intelligentsia. To be sure, we don't all behave like this, but let's face it \u2013 many do. We may be no better or worse than other foreigners abroad, but we have to learn to own up to the behaviour of some of our compatriots. Politically, Russia has been using its newly acquired weight, disproportionately inflated by the world's demand for oil and gas, to try to pressure its neighbours into compliance with its wishes, rather than attempting to turn them into friends and allies. Of course, the Americans have been doing exactly the same since the end of the cold war \u2013 but then, as we know, this has not earned them many friends in the world, either.The allegation of Russophobia presupposes also that while the west is Russophobic, we, the Russians, do like the rest of the world, and even the west itself \u2013 because if we didn't why should we be offended by its dislike of us? But do we really like the west? All public opinion polls show that Russians' attitude to the west, the US and the UK in particular, has steadily deteriorated since the early 1990s. The coverage of these countries by most of the Russian media (and film industry) has become increasingly unfavourable, particularly since the early 2000s, and is at its worst in decades. The British media is prepared to discuss its own Russophobia on its pages, but few Russian publications would even consider publishing an article about Anglophobia in Russia. Not because it does not exist, but because the logic is that while they deserve our dislike, we do not deserve theirs. The same applies, of course, to all others who \"deserved\" Russia's wrath. Has our coverage of Georgia, Ukraine and Poland been objective? More objective than theirs of us? And what about Russia's xenophobia aimed against those foreigners who come to work in its cities and even its own citizens \u2013 the Tatars, the Chechens and other \u2013 all those who are called, disparagingly, \"blacks\"?Even if we accept this logic and assume that the west has been unfair to us (which it was, for example, at the beginning of the Georgia war \u2013 a fact that the Russian propagandists inside the country used to the utmost), than why not do something about it? If Russia loses a propaganda war abroad, than whose fault is that? There is yet another twist to the Russophobia theory. Why is it that we are particularly interested in what the west thinks of us? Why are we not equally concerned about how we appear to the public opinion in China? Or Venezuela? Or Iran? Or Zimbabwe? Is this because they are our partners or friends, and there is certainly no Russophobia there? But then it is we who choose our friends. We have to concede that the Americans and the British have the same right to choose theirs. The Russian philosopher Georgii Fedotov wrote after the first world war: \"Russian national feeling has been deeply hurt by the defeat, partition and the fall of Russia, and, unwilling to take the responsibility on itself, lacking the courage for penitence, it has begun to look for a culprit outside itself \u2013 in the west.\" His words still apply. Self-pity, righteousness and a sense of victimhood are extremely destructive for any nation. The Russophobia theory feeds into all these traits. If Russia's relations are not all that one might wish, let's not blame it on Russophobia. Russia has to take its full share of the responsibility for this.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Irina Filatova: Russia should recognise its faults"},{"date": "2008-11-21T18:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "More than once, I have listened to a Russian tell me the convoluted story of how a grandparent was killed on the personal orders of Stalin. Sometimes, I sensed they knew this was far-fetched, but this myth gave an explanation and a higher meaning to their relative's death.When a journalist and Putin critic is killed in Russia (or London), the reaction is often the same from journalists. The immediate rush to judgment is that the \"ex-KGB colonel\" is somehow involved. It certainly makes a good story that is easy to understand and excites the emotions by personalising the perpetrator.But I have never been truly convinced of Putin's involvement in a grand Kremlin plot to kill Anna Politkovskaya, a crime that finally reached court this week. When he said that she was \"very minor\", he was not so much denigrating her journalism as being callously honest \u2013 there would have been too many negatives from having her killed, not least the bad press abroad.Under Putin, as under Yeltsin, the deaths of journalists have mainly been connected with the trouble in Chechnya and Ingushetia or the investigation of shady business deals and corruption. Just this week, a local Moscow journalist was badly beaten after providing critical coverage of the local authorities. The fact that the people who ordered Politkovskaya's killing (most likely someone she was investigating in Chechnya) have not been found does not mean that the Kremlin was behind it. It means that someone with enough power \u2013 control over guns or money \u2013 does not want the truth to get out.Just as with Stalin, people have an impression of Putin as an all-powerful dictator who controls every aspect of his country. This impression is pushed by Russian and western media, as well as Putin himself and his allies. But it's a mirage. While we think of Putin as an dictator, directly responsible for the death of journalists, we miss the point. We need to get deeper inside what make Russia a country where this kind of thing can happen.This is not to absolve Putin of responsibility for what happens in Russia. His leadership has failed to bring about a form of governance and society where the truth will out and punishment awaits the real perpetrators, and not just the small fish, as in this trial. Putin did not create this problem, but he has utterly failed to solve it.Rather ironically, Putin's biggest failure turns out to be his inability to bring order to a country still controlled at a local and national level by the power of guns and money. The much-vaunted stability that he brought to the country has been largely financial, fuelled by petrodollars, and it now appears to be unravelling as the price of oil plunges.When Putin came to power in 2000, he promised to institute a \"dictatorship of the law\". But when Medvedev became president earlier this year, he attacked the \"legal nihilism\" that pervades Russia's justice system. This lack of progress is surely one of the greatest indictments of any leader who claims to be taking his country towards democracy, as Putin does.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: Putin has been unable to combat the chaos that caused the death of Anna Politkovskaya"},{"date": "2008-11-18T14:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "On Friday, the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, tried to cool tension between Russia and the United States by calling on the US to abandon its drive for a European-based missile defence system, and calling on Russia to cancel deployment of ballistic missiles to the Polish border. Unfortunately, Russian and American manoeuvres have made it difficult for either country to back down.The election of Barack Obama as president of the United States has opened some space for discussion on the proposed missile defence system, as Obama is far more sceptical of missile defence than his predecessor. Russia, however, is doing itself no favours by forcing a confrontation over the missile shield. Instead, Russia has made it far more difficult for Obama to cancel the programme once in office by making him vulnerable to domestic proponents of missile defence. The Bush administration has worked frantically to make the Polish BMD base a reality before the expiration of its term in January. In spite of Obama's announced support of ballistic missile defence, the administration (and many of Obama's own backers) has suspected that Obama is not nearly as committed to missile defence as President Bush. On November 8, Denis McDonough, an Obama adviser, confirmed that Obama was not committed to following through on the deployment of a missile defence system in Poland. This contradicted an earlier statement by the Polish president, Lech Kaczynski, that Obama had promised to deploy the system. Russia has repeatedly and assertively made known its opposition to the deployment of a ballistic missile defence system in Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, Russia has provided invaluable assistance to proponents of the system. The conflict in South Ossetia jump-started the missile defence deal between Poland and the US. The agreement had languished for months, as the Poles pressed the Bush administration for further concessions. The Russian invasion of Georgia made both sides more flexible. Russia reacted aggressively to the agreement, promising to dispatch a naval taskforce for manoeuvres off Venezuela. Finally, last week President Medvedev announced that SS-26 Iskander ballistic missiles would be deployed to Kaliningrad, on the Polish border. Georgia claims that Russia used these missiles in the conflict in South Ossetia, although Russia has denied the accusation. The Iskander deployment amounts to a clumsy effort to intimidate Poland and the US into cancelling the ballistic missile defence deal. It seems quite likely that the effort will have the opposite effect, as proponents of ballistic missile defence in the US can use the Russian threats to pressure Obama into going forward with the Polish deal. Lieutenant General Trey Obering, head of the Missile Defence Agency, publicly stated on November 12 that ending the European ballistic missile programme would have dire consequences. Boeing, a key missile defence contractor, has released studies touting the economic value of missile defence to Alaska and Alabama. If Obama reneges on the Polish BMD deal, these opponents will accuse him of showing weakness in front of the Russians. It would be a pity if Obama allowed the Russians to goad him into going ahead with the Polish BMD deployment. His scepticism toward missile defence, a programme on which the US has spent billions in spite of a poor testing record and a shaky rationale, is healthy. The US and Russia would both benefit from the cancellation of the Polish deployment. Unfortunately, Russia has chosen to pursue what amounts to \"brute\" diplomacy, pursuing confrontation instead of accommodation with the US. This makes his job harder, but Obama should nevertheless resist the impulse to try to look tough on missile defence. The Russian-American relationship and the financial balance sheet of the US will benefit if Obama displays actual toughness in the face of domestic critics, rather than faux-toughness to the Russians.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Russia", "Poland", "US foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Russian move makes it hard for Obama to scale back missile defence"},{"date": "2008-11-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\"In the days of the great struggle against the foreign enemies, who for nearly three years have tried to enslave our fatherland, the Lord God has been pleased to send down on Russia a new heavy trial. Internal popular disturbances threaten to have a disastrous effect on the future conduct of this persistent war.The destiny of Russia, the honour of our heroic army, the welfare of the people and the whole future of our dear fatherland demand that the war should be brought to a victorious conclusion whatever the cost. The cruel enemy is making his last efforts, and already the hour approaches when our glorious army, together with our gallant allies, will crush him. In these decisive days in the life of Russia, We thought it our duty of conscience to facilitate for our people the closest union possible and a consolidation of all national forces for the speedy attainment of victory.In agreement with the Imperial Duma we have thought it well to renounce the throne of the Russian Empire and to lay down the supreme power. As We do not wish to part from our beloved son, We transmit the succession to our brother, the Grand Duke Michael Alexandrovich, and give him our blessing to mount the throne of the Russian Empire.\"In the name of our dearly beloved homeland, we call on our faithful sons of the fatherland to fulfil their sacred duty to the fatherland, to obey the tsar in the heavy moment of national trials, and to help him, together with the representatives of the people, to guide the Russian Empire on the road to victory, welfare, and glory. May the Lord God help Russia!\u2022 Nicholas II signed his abdication on March 15 1917 at 3.05pm. He and his family were all murdered by the Bolsheviks on July 17 1918.The Workers' and Peasants' government, created by the revolution of October 24-25, and drawing its strength from the Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies, proposes to all warring peoples and their governments to begin at once negotiations leading to a just democratic peace.A just and democratic peace for which the great majority of wearied, tormented and war-exhausted toilers and labouring classes of all belligerent countries are thirsting; a peace which the Russian workers and peasants have so loudly and insistently demanded since the overthrow of the tsar's monarchy; such a peace the government considers to be an immediate peace without annexations (ie, without the seizure of foreign territory and the forcible annexation of foreign nationalities) and without indemnities.The government considers that to continue this war simply to decide how to divide the weak nationalities among the powerful and rich nations which had seized them would be the greatest crime against humanity, and it solemnly announces its readiness to sign at once the terms of peace which will end this war on the indicated conditions, equally just for all nationalities without exception.The government abolishes secret diplomacy, expressing, for its part, the firm determination to carry on all negotiations absolutely openly and in view of all the people ... In making these peace proposals to the government and peoples of all warring countries, the Provisional Government of Workers and Peasants of Russia appeals particularly to the class-conscious workers of the three most advanced nations of mankind, who are also the largest states participating in the present war - England, France and Germany.The workers of these countries have rendered the greatest possible service to the cause of progress and socialism by the great example of the Chartist movement in England, several revolutions of universal historic significance accomplished by the French proletariat, and, finally, the heroic struggle against the Law of Exceptions in Germany, a struggle which was prolonged, dogged and disciplined, which could be held up as an example for the workers of the whole world, and which aimed at the creation of proletarian mass organisations in Germany.All these examples of proletarian heroism and historic achievement serve us as a guarantee that the workers of these three countries will understand the tasks which lie before them by way of liberating humanity from the horrors of war and its consequences, and that by their resolute, unselfishly energetic efforts in various directions, these workers will help us to bring to a successful end the cause of peace, and, together with this, the cause of the liberation of the toiling and exploited masses from all forms of slavery and all exploitation.We have to fight against the hypocrisy of the governments, which, while talking about peace and justice, actually carry on wars of conquest and plunder. Not one single government will tell you what it really means. But we are opposed to secret diplomacy and can afford to act openly before all people. We do not now close, nor have we ever closed, our eyes to the difficulties.Wars cannot be ended by a refusal [to fight]; they cannot be ended by one side alone. We are proposing an armistice for three months - though not rejecting a shorter period - so that this will give the suffering army at least a breathing spell, and will make possible the calling of popular meetings in all civilised countries to discuss the conditions [of peace].\u2022 Delivered at second All-Russia Congress of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies, October 26 1917. On November 8, Lenin was elected chair of the Council of People's Commissars by the Russian Congress of Soviets.", "tags": ["First world war", "Vladimir Lenin"], "title": "First world war: Revolution turns Russia towards peace"},{"date": "2008-11-13T17:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Tomorrow, EU heads of government will resume talks with Russia on a new EU partnership agreement. Both the EU and Russia would find it useful, but it is vital to neither for a good deal of trade and dialogue to continue. Yet this decision is of enormous symbolic importance.Restarting talks effectively means a return to business as usual between Europe and Russia \u2013 the lightest of slapped wrists for Russian aggression. That is a major strategic error whose significance will be noted not just by Russia and its neighbours, but around the world.On August 12 President Sarkozy, representing the whole European Union, helped bring the Georgian war to an end with a six-point ceasefire agreement that Russia and Georgia signed up to.Russia has failed to meet those obligations. In breach of the ceasefire, Russian troops have still not returned to the positions they held before the war, a point EU heads of government again made a specific condition for resuming talks at the September 1 EU summit.Instead, Russia has stationed thousands of troops in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, including in areas where there were no Russian troops present before the war. EU peace monitors have been denied entry to those territories. In breach of UN resolutions guaranteeing Georgian territorial integrity, the Kremlin has unilaterally recognised the two breakaway territories' independence and is now allowing them to block progress in international talks to settle the conflict.As I saw for myself when I visited Georgian refugees three weeks ago, Russia has also failed to safeguard the return of ethnic Georgian refugees to their homes in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. The latest report from the NGO Human Rights Watch accuses Russia of doing nothing to protect Georgian civilians from militia. Less than a decade since we last said \"Never again\" to ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, it has happened again on Europe's borders.Granted, it is widely agreed that the wisdom of Georgia's actions was doubtful, notwithstanding the series of likely calculated provocations they were subject to. It is equally accepted that Russia's response was severely disproportionate and excessively violent.This background made Monday's decision on EU-Russia negotiations a major test of the European Union's resolve and clarity. If European countries working together through the EU hope to be taken seriously in the world they must show themselves capable of consistency, perseverance and strategic patience. The EU has ended up displaying extraordinary weakness by not just failing to enforce the terms of a ceasefire it brokered just three months ago but even seeming willing to let its terms slide entirely.The EU can still move forward from this depressing situation. First, there should at least be no final agreement on a new partnership until Russia meets its ceasefire obligation in full, with no fudges, and facilitates the return of refugees to their homes.Secondly, the EU should play its part in enforcing international law in the breakaway regions. There have been numerous UN resolutions, signed by Russia, that recognise them as sovereign Georgian territory. So there should be visa, travel and financial restrictions on individuals and companies doing business in South Ossetia and Abkhazia without lawful authorisation from the Georgian government.Thirdly, European countries must act to remove Russia's ability to exert undue influence on European policies through energy. Greater security of supply is essential. This means, partly, diversifying sources of supply from outside Europe and putting right the government's failure to ensure we have sufficient gas storage to withstand external supply shortages.It also means doing things the EU should in any case have done long ago: completing the single market in energy and allowing energy to flow freely across the EU by helping to build interconnectors. So today's proposal from the European Commission for an EU energy security plan is timely and merits serious and urgent consideration.Taken together, those measures would ensure that Russia pays a political price for its aggression towards Georgia. They would make a just political resolution in Abkhazia and South Ossetia more feasible. They would enhance Europe's joint strength and security.We, and more broadly Europe, rightly want a positive and constructive relationship with Russia. More than half of Russia's trade is with the EU. Last year Russia was the largest foreign investor raising money on the London Stock Exchange and Britain is now the largest foreign investor in Russia. That is a mutually beneficial relationship and we want to see it prosper. We want Russia to enjoy stability in the northern Caucasus and we need to work with Russia on Iran. But it would be a serious error and a mark of feebleness and irresolution for Europe to let Russia set the terms of that relationship.After the slow start the government had taken a properly robust stand on Russia's actions. In response to questioning in the Commons by David Cameron and myself the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary gave specific guarantees that there would be no talks until Russia had met its obligations and let refugees go home.Many other EU member states expressed the view that a revival of partnership talks was unwarranted and would send completely the wrong message to Russia. They have found themselves let down by the British government's reversal on the issue. The government's U-turn over the past week has been a culpable failure of British leadership. It will be remembered, and Britain's reputation for reliability and steadfastness has suffered.", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Georgia", "International trade", "International Power", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "William Hague: Europe is showing weakness in trade talks with Russia"},{"date": "2008-12-24T00:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has thrown down a new gauntlet to Barack Obama with an announcement that it will sharply increase production of strategic nuclear missiles.In the latest of a series of combative moves by the Kremlin, a senior government official in Moscow said the Russian military would commission 70 strategic missiles over the next three years, as part of a massive rearmament programme which will also include short-range missiles, 300 tanks, 14 warships and 50 planes.Military experts said the planned new arsenal was presumed to consist of land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) rather than submarine-launched missiles. If this is the case, the plans represent a fourfold increase in the rate of ICBM deployment. The arsenal will include a new-generation, multiple-warhead ICBM called the RS-24. It was first test-fired in 2007, with first deputy prime minister Sergei Ivanov boasting it was \"capable of overcoming any existing or future missile defence systems\".The new missiles will be part of a \u00a395bn defence procurement package for 2009-2011, a 28% increase in arms spending, according to Vladislav Putilin of the cabinet's military-industrial commission. There will be further increases in spending in the following two years.The new military procurements follow the war in Georgia in August. Russian forces easily routed Georgian troops, but the conflict exposed weaknesses in the Russian army, including outdated equipment and poorly co-ordinated command structures. The defence ministry said it would carry out drastic reforms, turning the army into a more modern force.Vladimir Putin on Monday urged cabinet officials to quickly allocate funds for new weapons and closely control the quality and pace of their production. Military experts said the construction of 70 long-range nuclear missiles in the next three years represented a Russian attempt to strengthen its bargaining position with Washington, in talks aimed at agreeing new nuclear weapons cuts when the current treaty in force, Start I, expires next December. Moscow's strategy appears to be to challenge Obama's new administration as soon as it takes office on 20 January. On the day Obama was elected the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, announced plans to station short-range Iskander missiles in Russia's Kaliningrad exclave as a counter to American installation of its missile defence system in eastern Europe.Ruben Sergeev, an expert on disarmament issues, said Moscow was afraid of falling behind in a new arms race. \"Russia is decommissioning its old liquid-fuel missiles from the Soviet era at a rate of several dozen every year,\" he said. \"The Kremlin knows that if it doesn't increase production of ICBMs rapidly now then it will have no chance of getting a new arms reduction treaty out of the US, which has much greater quantities of missiles.\" Negotiations on a successor to Start I have been bogged down in detail, and hamstrung by the Bush administration's lame duck status. The chief US negotiator, John Rood, said last week that the latest sticking point was Russian insistence that the new treaty cover long-range delivery systems, such as bombers and missiles, intended for conventional arms as well as nuclear warheads. The US wants the treaty to focus solely on nuclear warheads. Moscow has also signalled that it would supply Tehran with new surface-to-air missiles in defiance of US opposition. Washington has asked for more information on the sales, fearing the weapons being sold include long-range S-300 missiles, which have a 120km (75 mile) range. They could threaten US planes in Iraq, and could also protect Iranian nuclear sites from aerial attack.The US has set aside its own plans for military action against Iran for now, but US officials hoped that fear of an Israeli strike would make Iran more amenable to suspending its enrichment of uranium.Start I Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, July 1991, limited US and Soviet Union to long-range nuclear arsenals of 6,000 warheads on 1,600 delivery systems. Expires 5 December 2009.INF Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces treaty 1987 banned missiles such as the US Cruise with range of 3,500 miles.Start II Signed 1993, supposed to ban multiple warheads on long-range missiles. Russian Duma delayed ratifying and it never came into force. Start III Negotiated in 1997 to reduce nuclear stockpiles to 2,000-2,500 warheads, but fell apart over the US missile defence system. Talks resumed in 2007.Sort Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty, or 2002 Moscow Treaty, cuts US and Russian arsenals to 1,700-2,200 operationally deployed warheads each. No verification procedures.", "tags": ["Russia", "US news", "Arms trade", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Nuclear weapons", "Europe"], "title": "Russia to raise nuclear missile output fourfold"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-01-20T08:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Barack Obama prepares for his inauguration, one analyst has suggested that the US faces more serious trouble than even the most pessimistic economists have forecast. The entire economy is set to crash by November, leaving states fighting among themselves and leading to disintegration into six parts by summer 2010. As the weakened parts fall under foreign influence, Russia will take the golden opportunity to replace the US as the world's foremost superpower.According to the former KGB analyst and dean of the international relations department at the Russian foreign ministry's Diplomatic Academy, Igor Panarin, this scenario has \"a roughly 50% chance of coming true\". This theory has been receiving widespread attention in the Russian state-controlled media.Another story of a similar ilk has sat at the top of the state-backed Moscow News's most-read list for the past few months: a \"prophetess\" called Vanga has predicted that Russia will dominate the world. Economists' assessments of Russia, a country that currently accounts for about 3% of global GDP (comparable with the UK) and with per capita GDP at a quarter of the US level, are somewhat more sobering. Its economy is in serious trouble after years of neglected reforms, over-reliance on commodities and a failure to tackle rampant corruption. Some point to Russia's large currency reserves, but these have declined by over one quarter since August, and are rapidly disappearing to prop up the banking system, Kremlin-connected oligarchs and the sliding rouble. The recent gas conflict with Ukraine has been read by many as driven by the increasing financial woes of Gazprom and Russia. The Russian leadership's response to the crisis has so far had two main thrusts \u2013 first, to protect favoured oligarchs; second, to protect the leadership from popular dissent by stopping the rouble from plummeting. No one really knows how bad Russia's economic situation is because of an opacity fed by the desire to maintain calm and cover up problems and mistakes. But that image is struggling under the weight of the crisis. Factories stand idle across Russia, and surveys show that Russians are very worried about the economy as wage cuts and layoffs hit. In the far eastern city of Vladivostok, December's economic protests have turned political.For years, critics have pointed to the need for an open debate within Russia about the country's path in order to find the best way for economic and social progress and to minimise the effect of any crisis such as the current one. But with dollars dripping down from the top and state-controlled TV pushing the image of Putin and Russia as strong and growing after years of stagnation and hardship, ideas other than the Putin model struggled to take hold.But in Russia's history, crises have often served to sober up perceptions of the country. Nicholas I (1825-1855) was renowned as the \"gendarme of Europe\". During his reign, the intelligentsia complained constantly of repression from the state on the one hand and disinterest from people on the other. Then Russia was crushed by the British in the Crimean War. Nicholas committed suicide and Russian strength was revealed to be a self-propagating myth. As society opened up, interest increased in other paths that Russia could take; people began to discuss questions of reform. London-based Russian intellectual Alexander Herzen's journal The Bell, which detailed abuses of power by state officials and proposed new, different paths for Russia, was read avidly. This discussion led the way for the reforms of Alexander II. Public debate had opened up new possibilities for economic and social change, alternative paths to a country directed by autocratic decision alone (which were ultimately not taken). As the crisis increasingly reveals the gulf between Russia's self-image and its real possibilities, the time of Panarin and Vanga could be coming to an end. Talk will surely move from fantasies about Russia challenging the US to the country's very real internal problems and how to solve them. Previously deaf ears will begin to listen as the failures of the current leadership become clear in everyday life. The question that will then be raised is one that has been asked of Russian leaders for centuries: liberalisation, or crack down?", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: The world financial crisis is exposing Russia's creaking, corrupt economy"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-01-20T08:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Barack Obama prepares for his inauguration, one analyst has suggested that the US faces more serious trouble than even the most pessimistic economists have forecast. The entire economy is set to crash by November, leaving states fighting among themselves and leading to disintegration into six parts by summer 2010. As the weakened parts fall under foreign influence, Russia will take the golden opportunity to replace the US as the world's foremost superpower.According to the former KGB analyst and dean of the international relations department at the Russian foreign ministry's Diplomatic Academy, Igor Panarin, this scenario has \"a roughly 50% chance of coming true\". This theory has been receiving widespread attention in the Russian state-controlled media.Another story of a similar ilk has sat at the top of the state-backed Moscow News's most-read list for the past few months: a \"prophetess\" called Vanga has predicted that Russia will dominate the world. Economists' assessments of Russia, a country that currently accounts for about 3% of global GDP (comparable with the UK) and with per capita GDP at a quarter of the US level, are somewhat more sobering. Its economy is in serious trouble after years of neglected reforms, over-reliance on commodities and a failure to tackle rampant corruption. Some point to Russia's large currency reserves, but these have declined by over one quarter since August, and are rapidly disappearing to prop up the banking system, Kremlin-connected oligarchs and the sliding rouble. The recent gas conflict with Ukraine has been read by many as driven by the increasing financial woes of Gazprom and Russia. The Russian leadership's response to the crisis has so far had two main thrusts \u2013 first, to protect favoured oligarchs; second, to protect the leadership from popular dissent by stopping the rouble from plummeting. No one really knows how bad Russia's economic situation is because of an opacity fed by the desire to maintain calm and cover up problems and mistakes. But that image is struggling under the weight of the crisis. Factories stand idle across Russia, and surveys show that Russians are very worried about the economy as wage cuts and layoffs hit. In the far eastern city of Vladivostok, December's economic protests have turned political.For years, critics have pointed to the need for an open debate within Russia about the country's path in order to find the best way for economic and social progress and to minimise the effect of any crisis such as the current one. But with dollars dripping down from the top and state-controlled TV pushing the image of Putin and Russia as strong and growing after years of stagnation and hardship, ideas other than the Putin model struggled to take hold.But in Russia's history, crises have often served to sober up perceptions of the country. Nicholas I (1825-1855) was renowned as the \"gendarme of Europe\". During his reign, the intelligentsia complained constantly of repression from the state on the one hand and disinterest from people on the other. Then Russia was crushed by the British in the Crimean War. Nicholas committed suicide and Russian strength was revealed to be a self-propagating myth. As society opened up, interest increased in other paths that Russia could take; people began to discuss questions of reform. London-based Russian intellectual Alexander Herzen's journal The Bell, which detailed abuses of power by state officials and proposed new, different paths for Russia, was read avidly. This discussion led the way for the reforms of Alexander II. Public debate had opened up new possibilities for economic and social change, alternative paths to a country directed by autocratic decision alone (which were ultimately not taken). As the crisis increasingly reveals the gulf between Russia's self-image and its real possibilities, the time of Panarin and Vanga could be coming to an end. Talk will surely move from fantasies about Russia challenging the US to the country's very real internal problems and how to solve them. Previously deaf ears will begin to listen as the failures of the current leadership become clear in everyday life. The question that will then be raised is one that has been asked of Russian leaders for centuries: liberalisation, or crack down?", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: The world financial crisis is exposing Russia's creaking, corrupt economy"},{"date": "2009-01-15T20:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Former KGB agent takes over the Evening Standard: it's a headline designed to get columnists at the Daily Mail trembling over their email queues. Unfortunately, Alexander Lebedev is both a shrewder operator and a more impressive character than the stereotype that the British press never tires of trotting out.The KGB, when Lebedev was serving in it in 1992 in London, comprised both the grunts and thugs whom we remember and the highly educated spies and analysts whom we conveniently don't. Operatives like Lebedev were the first to see that the Soviet system was crashing around their ears and were consequently the first to privatise their skills in Russia's fledging free market. When the elite left the service, they were not easily replaced. Lebedev became a banker. Others became bodyguards of the oligarchs. In both cases, the oligarchs became better protected and advised than their counterparts in the Russian state. It took a nationalist like Vladimir Putin to restore that balance. Some argue he still has not succeeded.But the idea that a Russian with a KGB background who takes over a newspaper in London could still constitute some inherent threat lingers in our minds. In Lebedev's case it could not be further from the truth.In his politics, Lebedev is a centrist. Like his friend and partner Mikhail Gorbachev, he has had a mixed relationship with Putin, but has been careful not to stick his head too high above the political parapet. Apart from owning a bank and (he claims) Russia's biggest producer of potatoes, Lebedev owns a Russian newspaper, the bi-weekly Novaya Gazeta. His first stab at newspaper ownership should encourage free thinkers in Britain. This is a liberal newspaper which continues to report on uncomfortable subjects such as corruption in the FSB, the successor to the KGB, and on Russia's ongoing conflict in the North Caucasus. When the paper's most famous reporter, Anna Politkovskaya, was shot dead outside her flat in Moscow, Lebedev offered $1m for information leading to the arrest of her killer \u2013 in the full knowlege that the people who ordered her killing would never be delivered to justice.But the bottom line for a pragmatist like Lebedev is survival. When another of his newspapers got a little too personal about Putin (the Moscow Korrespondent claimed Putin had an affair with an Olympic gymnast) he had no qualms about shutting it down. So its independence operates within certain limits.Lebedev keeps Novaya Gazeta at arm's length and whenever he has a statement to make, he uses his own website, not Novaya's columns. The idea that Lebedev is going to turn the Evening Standard into a voice of disaffected Russian dissidents in London is silly. Strip all the rest away and Lebedev's chief sin appears to be that he likes London. Like many Russians.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "Media", "Russia", "London", "Alexander Lebedev", "London Evening Standard", "Press freedom", "Europe"], "title": "David Hearst: Forget the stereotypes, Lebedev is a pragmatist"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-01-20T08:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Barack Obama prepares for his inauguration, one analyst has suggested that the US faces more serious trouble than even the most pessimistic economists have forecast. The entire economy is set to crash by November, leaving states fighting among themselves and leading to disintegration into six parts by summer 2010. As the weakened parts fall under foreign influence, Russia will take the golden opportunity to replace the US as the world's foremost superpower.According to the former KGB analyst and dean of the international relations department at the Russian foreign ministry's Diplomatic Academy, Igor Panarin, this scenario has \"a roughly 50% chance of coming true\". This theory has been receiving widespread attention in the Russian state-controlled media.Another story of a similar ilk has sat at the top of the state-backed Moscow News's most-read list for the past few months: a \"prophetess\" called Vanga has predicted that Russia will dominate the world. Economists' assessments of Russia, a country that currently accounts for about 3% of global GDP (comparable with the UK) and with per capita GDP at a quarter of the US level, are somewhat more sobering. Its economy is in serious trouble after years of neglected reforms, over-reliance on commodities and a failure to tackle rampant corruption. Some point to Russia's large currency reserves, but these have declined by over one quarter since August, and are rapidly disappearing to prop up the banking system, Kremlin-connected oligarchs and the sliding rouble. The recent gas conflict with Ukraine has been read by many as driven by the increasing financial woes of Gazprom and Russia. The Russian leadership's response to the crisis has so far had two main thrusts \u2013 first, to protect favoured oligarchs; second, to protect the leadership from popular dissent by stopping the rouble from plummeting. No one really knows how bad Russia's economic situation is because of an opacity fed by the desire to maintain calm and cover up problems and mistakes. But that image is struggling under the weight of the crisis. Factories stand idle across Russia, and surveys show that Russians are very worried about the economy as wage cuts and layoffs hit. In the far eastern city of Vladivostok, December's economic protests have turned political.For years, critics have pointed to the need for an open debate within Russia about the country's path in order to find the best way for economic and social progress and to minimise the effect of any crisis such as the current one. But with dollars dripping down from the top and state-controlled TV pushing the image of Putin and Russia as strong and growing after years of stagnation and hardship, ideas other than the Putin model struggled to take hold.But in Russia's history, crises have often served to sober up perceptions of the country. Nicholas I (1825-1855) was renowned as the \"gendarme of Europe\". During his reign, the intelligentsia complained constantly of repression from the state on the one hand and disinterest from people on the other. Then Russia was crushed by the British in the Crimean War. Nicholas committed suicide and Russian strength was revealed to be a self-propagating myth. As society opened up, interest increased in other paths that Russia could take; people began to discuss questions of reform. London-based Russian intellectual Alexander Herzen's journal The Bell, which detailed abuses of power by state officials and proposed new, different paths for Russia, was read avidly. This discussion led the way for the reforms of Alexander II. Public debate had opened up new possibilities for economic and social change, alternative paths to a country directed by autocratic decision alone (which were ultimately not taken). As the crisis increasingly reveals the gulf between Russia's self-image and its real possibilities, the time of Panarin and Vanga could be coming to an end. Talk will surely move from fantasies about Russia challenging the US to the country's very real internal problems and how to solve them. Previously deaf ears will begin to listen as the failures of the current leadership become clear in everyday life. The question that will then be raised is one that has been asked of Russian leaders for centuries: liberalisation, or crack down?", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: The world financial crisis is exposing Russia's creaking, corrupt economy"},{"date": "2009-01-15T20:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Former KGB agent takes over the Evening Standard: it's a headline designed to get columnists at the Daily Mail trembling over their email queues. Unfortunately, Alexander Lebedev is both a shrewder operator and a more impressive character than the stereotype that the British press never tires of trotting out.The KGB, when Lebedev was serving in it in 1992 in London, comprised both the grunts and thugs whom we remember and the highly educated spies and analysts whom we conveniently don't. Operatives like Lebedev were the first to see that the Soviet system was crashing around their ears and were consequently the first to privatise their skills in Russia's fledging free market. When the elite left the service, they were not easily replaced. Lebedev became a banker. Others became bodyguards of the oligarchs. In both cases, the oligarchs became better protected and advised than their counterparts in the Russian state. It took a nationalist like Vladimir Putin to restore that balance. Some argue he still has not succeeded.But the idea that a Russian with a KGB background who takes over a newspaper in London could still constitute some inherent threat lingers in our minds. In Lebedev's case it could not be further from the truth.In his politics, Lebedev is a centrist. Like his friend and partner Mikhail Gorbachev, he has had a mixed relationship with Putin, but has been careful not to stick his head too high above the political parapet. Apart from owning a bank and (he claims) Russia's biggest producer of potatoes, Lebedev owns a Russian newspaper, the bi-weekly Novaya Gazeta. His first stab at newspaper ownership should encourage free thinkers in Britain. This is a liberal newspaper which continues to report on uncomfortable subjects such as corruption in the FSB, the successor to the KGB, and on Russia's ongoing conflict in the North Caucasus. When the paper's most famous reporter, Anna Politkovskaya, was shot dead outside her flat in Moscow, Lebedev offered $1m for information leading to the arrest of her killer \u2013 in the full knowlege that the people who ordered her killing would never be delivered to justice.But the bottom line for a pragmatist like Lebedev is survival. When another of his newspapers got a little too personal about Putin (the Moscow Korrespondent claimed Putin had an affair with an Olympic gymnast) he had no qualms about shutting it down. So its independence operates within certain limits.Lebedev keeps Novaya Gazeta at arm's length and whenever he has a statement to make, he uses his own website, not Novaya's columns. The idea that Lebedev is going to turn the Evening Standard into a voice of disaffected Russian dissidents in London is silly. Strip all the rest away and Lebedev's chief sin appears to be that he likes London. Like many Russians.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "Media", "Russia", "London", "Alexander Lebedev", "London Evening Standard", "Press freedom", "Europe"], "title": "David Hearst: Forget the stereotypes, Lebedev is a pragmatist"},{"date": "2009-03-17T13:44:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Dmitry Medvedev said today that Russia planned to boost its conventionally armed and nuclear forces to counter a growing threat from Nato, raising the spectre of a military confrontation between Moscow and the west.In a hawkish speech to Russia's top generals, Medvedev said Russia intended to upgrade its army and navy from 2011. Russia would also overhaul its strategic nuclear forces in an effort to guarantee the country's \"security\", he said.The modernisation was necessary because of the danger posed by the west's transatlantic military alliance, he said. \"Attempts to expand the military infrastructure of Nato near the borders of our country are continuing.\"Medvedev's remarks come two weeks before his first meeting with President Barack Obama, at the G20 summit in London on 2 April. The Obama administration has said it wants to \"reset\" its troubled relations with Moscow \u2013 but has so far received mixed signals from the Kremlin.Russia has offered to assist the US in the transport of non-military supplies to Afghanistan. At the same time, however, Moscow agreed a backroom deal last month with Kyrgyzstan which is likely to lead to the closure of the US's key military base in central Asia.At issue is what Moscow regards as the west's creeping encroachment into Russia's backyard. Russia vehemently objects to Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine, and is also bitterly opposed to the deployment of the US's proposed missile defence shield in central Europe \u2013 currently under review.Today, Russia's defence minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, said the world situation meant the \"likelihood of armed conflicts and their potential danger for Russia\" was rising. \"The military-political situation is characterised by the US leadership's desire \u2026 to expand its military presence and that of its allies in regions adjacent to Russia,\" he declared.America was actively trying to steal energy and mineral resources in central Asia and other post-Soviet countries on Russia's borders, he complained, adding that the US was \"actively supporting processes aimed at ousting Russia from the area of its traditional interests\".Medvedev said today that Russia's security council was drawing up a new national security strategy for the period up to 2020. The strategy is likely to identify the main threat to Russia as western military expansion and the growing struggle for energy resources, analysts suggest. The old strategy identified the biggest challenge as terrorism.\"The primary task is to increase the combat readiness of our forces. First of all, our strategic nuclear forces,\" Medvedev said. \"They must be able to fulfil all the necessary tasks to ensure Russia's security.\"Medvedev also said another task on Russia's agenda was to transfer all combat units to a state of \"permanent readiness\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nato", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Kyrgyzstan", "Nuclear weapons", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia announces new arms race"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-01-20T08:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Barack Obama prepares for his inauguration, one analyst has suggested that the US faces more serious trouble than even the most pessimistic economists have forecast. The entire economy is set to crash by November, leaving states fighting among themselves and leading to disintegration into six parts by summer 2010. As the weakened parts fall under foreign influence, Russia will take the golden opportunity to replace the US as the world's foremost superpower.According to the former KGB analyst and dean of the international relations department at the Russian foreign ministry's Diplomatic Academy, Igor Panarin, this scenario has \"a roughly 50% chance of coming true\". This theory has been receiving widespread attention in the Russian state-controlled media.Another story of a similar ilk has sat at the top of the state-backed Moscow News's most-read list for the past few months: a \"prophetess\" called Vanga has predicted that Russia will dominate the world. Economists' assessments of Russia, a country that currently accounts for about 3% of global GDP (comparable with the UK) and with per capita GDP at a quarter of the US level, are somewhat more sobering. Its economy is in serious trouble after years of neglected reforms, over-reliance on commodities and a failure to tackle rampant corruption. Some point to Russia's large currency reserves, but these have declined by over one quarter since August, and are rapidly disappearing to prop up the banking system, Kremlin-connected oligarchs and the sliding rouble. The recent gas conflict with Ukraine has been read by many as driven by the increasing financial woes of Gazprom and Russia. The Russian leadership's response to the crisis has so far had two main thrusts \u2013 first, to protect favoured oligarchs; second, to protect the leadership from popular dissent by stopping the rouble from plummeting. No one really knows how bad Russia's economic situation is because of an opacity fed by the desire to maintain calm and cover up problems and mistakes. But that image is struggling under the weight of the crisis. Factories stand idle across Russia, and surveys show that Russians are very worried about the economy as wage cuts and layoffs hit. In the far eastern city of Vladivostok, December's economic protests have turned political.For years, critics have pointed to the need for an open debate within Russia about the country's path in order to find the best way for economic and social progress and to minimise the effect of any crisis such as the current one. But with dollars dripping down from the top and state-controlled TV pushing the image of Putin and Russia as strong and growing after years of stagnation and hardship, ideas other than the Putin model struggled to take hold.But in Russia's history, crises have often served to sober up perceptions of the country. Nicholas I (1825-1855) was renowned as the \"gendarme of Europe\". During his reign, the intelligentsia complained constantly of repression from the state on the one hand and disinterest from people on the other. Then Russia was crushed by the British in the Crimean War. Nicholas committed suicide and Russian strength was revealed to be a self-propagating myth. As society opened up, interest increased in other paths that Russia could take; people began to discuss questions of reform. London-based Russian intellectual Alexander Herzen's journal The Bell, which detailed abuses of power by state officials and proposed new, different paths for Russia, was read avidly. This discussion led the way for the reforms of Alexander II. Public debate had opened up new possibilities for economic and social change, alternative paths to a country directed by autocratic decision alone (which were ultimately not taken). As the crisis increasingly reveals the gulf between Russia's self-image and its real possibilities, the time of Panarin and Vanga could be coming to an end. Talk will surely move from fantasies about Russia challenging the US to the country's very real internal problems and how to solve them. Previously deaf ears will begin to listen as the failures of the current leadership become clear in everyday life. The question that will then be raised is one that has been asked of Russian leaders for centuries: liberalisation, or crack down?", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: The world financial crisis is exposing Russia's creaking, corrupt economy"},{"date": "2009-01-15T20:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Former KGB agent takes over the Evening Standard: it's a headline designed to get columnists at the Daily Mail trembling over their email queues. Unfortunately, Alexander Lebedev is both a shrewder operator and a more impressive character than the stereotype that the British press never tires of trotting out.The KGB, when Lebedev was serving in it in 1992 in London, comprised both the grunts and thugs whom we remember and the highly educated spies and analysts whom we conveniently don't. Operatives like Lebedev were the first to see that the Soviet system was crashing around their ears and were consequently the first to privatise their skills in Russia's fledging free market. When the elite left the service, they were not easily replaced. Lebedev became a banker. Others became bodyguards of the oligarchs. In both cases, the oligarchs became better protected and advised than their counterparts in the Russian state. It took a nationalist like Vladimir Putin to restore that balance. Some argue he still has not succeeded.But the idea that a Russian with a KGB background who takes over a newspaper in London could still constitute some inherent threat lingers in our minds. In Lebedev's case it could not be further from the truth.In his politics, Lebedev is a centrist. Like his friend and partner Mikhail Gorbachev, he has had a mixed relationship with Putin, but has been careful not to stick his head too high above the political parapet. Apart from owning a bank and (he claims) Russia's biggest producer of potatoes, Lebedev owns a Russian newspaper, the bi-weekly Novaya Gazeta. His first stab at newspaper ownership should encourage free thinkers in Britain. This is a liberal newspaper which continues to report on uncomfortable subjects such as corruption in the FSB, the successor to the KGB, and on Russia's ongoing conflict in the North Caucasus. When the paper's most famous reporter, Anna Politkovskaya, was shot dead outside her flat in Moscow, Lebedev offered $1m for information leading to the arrest of her killer \u2013 in the full knowlege that the people who ordered her killing would never be delivered to justice.But the bottom line for a pragmatist like Lebedev is survival. When another of his newspapers got a little too personal about Putin (the Moscow Korrespondent claimed Putin had an affair with an Olympic gymnast) he had no qualms about shutting it down. So its independence operates within certain limits.Lebedev keeps Novaya Gazeta at arm's length and whenever he has a statement to make, he uses his own website, not Novaya's columns. The idea that Lebedev is going to turn the Evening Standard into a voice of disaffected Russian dissidents in London is silly. Strip all the rest away and Lebedev's chief sin appears to be that he likes London. Like many Russians.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "Media", "Russia", "London", "Alexander Lebedev", "London Evening Standard", "Press freedom", "Europe"], "title": "David Hearst: Forget the stereotypes, Lebedev is a pragmatist"},{"date": "2009-03-17T13:44:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Dmitry Medvedev said today that Russia planned to boost its conventionally armed and nuclear forces to counter a growing threat from Nato, raising the spectre of a military confrontation between Moscow and the west.In a hawkish speech to Russia's top generals, Medvedev said Russia intended to upgrade its army and navy from 2011. Russia would also overhaul its strategic nuclear forces in an effort to guarantee the country's \"security\", he said.The modernisation was necessary because of the danger posed by the west's transatlantic military alliance, he said. \"Attempts to expand the military infrastructure of Nato near the borders of our country are continuing.\"Medvedev's remarks come two weeks before his first meeting with President Barack Obama, at the G20 summit in London on 2 April. The Obama administration has said it wants to \"reset\" its troubled relations with Moscow \u2013 but has so far received mixed signals from the Kremlin.Russia has offered to assist the US in the transport of non-military supplies to Afghanistan. At the same time, however, Moscow agreed a backroom deal last month with Kyrgyzstan which is likely to lead to the closure of the US's key military base in central Asia.At issue is what Moscow regards as the west's creeping encroachment into Russia's backyard. Russia vehemently objects to Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine, and is also bitterly opposed to the deployment of the US's proposed missile defence shield in central Europe \u2013 currently under review.Today, Russia's defence minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, said the world situation meant the \"likelihood of armed conflicts and their potential danger for Russia\" was rising. \"The military-political situation is characterised by the US leadership's desire \u2026 to expand its military presence and that of its allies in regions adjacent to Russia,\" he declared.America was actively trying to steal energy and mineral resources in central Asia and other post-Soviet countries on Russia's borders, he complained, adding that the US was \"actively supporting processes aimed at ousting Russia from the area of its traditional interests\".Medvedev said today that Russia's security council was drawing up a new national security strategy for the period up to 2020. The strategy is likely to identify the main threat to Russia as western military expansion and the growing struggle for energy resources, analysts suggest. The old strategy identified the biggest challenge as terrorism.\"The primary task is to increase the combat readiness of our forces. First of all, our strategic nuclear forces,\" Medvedev said. \"They must be able to fulfil all the necessary tasks to ensure Russia's security.\"Medvedev also said another task on Russia's agenda was to transfer all combat units to a state of \"permanent readiness\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nato", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Kyrgyzstan", "Nuclear weapons", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia announces new arms race"},{"date": "2009-01-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Russia once again resorts to aggressive economic tactics in its latest dispute over gas supplies with neighbouring Ukraine, its official state documentation is raising the spectre of future military conflict over energy resources. Russia's security council prepared a draft document on national security strategy until 2020. At a joint security council and state council meeting held in Moscow on 25 December and chaired by Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, the document in question was to be discussed, but this was postponed at the last minute, instead concentrating on Russian policy in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).President Medvedev ordered a new security strategy in June 2008, and its draft form has been discussed among all its regions. The \"strategy of national security of the Russian Federation until the year 2020\" \u2013 written under the direction of Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of the security council, is expected to be adopted at a state council meeting on 20 February 2009. In early December 2008 Patrushev toured Russia's federal districts promoting the new security strategy. Following a meeting on national security in the far eastern city of Blagoveshchensk he said the proposed draft was pragmatic and practical, and lists specific measures to ensure Russia's national security.The document itself begins with the claim that Russia has overcome the \"consequences of the systemic political and socioeconomic crisis of the late 20th century\" and has now restored its capacity to promote its national interest through \"multipolar international relations\". After predictably designating the United States as Russia's main rival, it then turns to how Russia may maintain its position in the world in future and describes rivalry for controlling global energy resources as a longer term source of conflict. The regions where such confrontations are expected to sharpen is also defined: \"The international policy will focus on the access to the energy sources of the world, including the Middle East, Barents Sea, the Arctic Region, Caspian Sea and Central Asia. The struggle for the hydrocarbon resources can be developed to the military confrontation as well, which can result with violation of balance on the Russia's borders with the allies and increasing of the nuclear countries\". It also suggests existing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, Middle East, some of the South Asian and African countries, as well as in Korean peninsula will have a continued negative impact on the international situation over the next 12 years.Emphasising possible future Nato enlargement, the new strategy promises to resist US plans to develop its missile defence capabilities, which the Russian elite claims are being aimed against Russia, rather than North Korea or Iran. Furthermore, Russia will pursue a \"pragmatic foreign policy\" which eschews a new arms race, which clearly the country cannot afford in any case.Despite widespread disagreement among Russian academics and security experts, the document assumes the possibility of future military conflict erupting over energy resources. Its current gas dispute with Ukraine compelled the Russian government to downplay fears within the EU of any possible disruption to energy supplies, has triggered speculation of increased gas prices in the UK and recently disclosed British government documents confirm that during the last Russo-Ukrainian energy dispute in 2006 the UK energy minister Alan Johnson was briefed eight times on threats to energy security emanating from Russia. Russia's pursuit of the \"multipolar world order\" will involve support from its allies in the CIS and its partners elsewhere. It pledges deeper participation within the G8, G20, RIC (Russia, India, China) and BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China). Although referring positively to its allies within the collective security treaty organisation, there is no doubt that drawing on the lessons of its experience of the Georgia war last August, Russia will rely more on its own devices and especially its armed forces, which are promised financial and other resources \"sufficient\" for the creation of a new image of the armed forces while retaining its strategic nuclear potential. The strategy also calls for establishing a \"highly professional community of Russian secret services\" as a means of ensuring the external and internal security of Russia and developing a \"national framework of dealing with international terrorism, extremism, nationalism, and ethnic separatism\". All this implies that Russia will continue to use its intelligence services at home and abroad to exaggerate Russia's power and its image in the world. Almost bombastic in its tone, once again portraying an \"image\" of a resurgent Russia, the new security strategy neglects real risks stemming from falling production and social hardship \u2013 these are not risks based on an imaginary enemy attacking Russia for its energy resources. The price of oil has fallen sharply, the world's economy is slowing down and the financial crisis is hitting Russia hard: the country's political leadership must adjust to new harsh economic realities, but instead chooses to flex military \"muscle\".", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roger McDermott: A draft of Russia's security strategy suggests it is geared up for the possibility of conflict over energy resources"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-01-20T08:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Barack Obama prepares for his inauguration, one analyst has suggested that the US faces more serious trouble than even the most pessimistic economists have forecast. The entire economy is set to crash by November, leaving states fighting among themselves and leading to disintegration into six parts by summer 2010. As the weakened parts fall under foreign influence, Russia will take the golden opportunity to replace the US as the world's foremost superpower.According to the former KGB analyst and dean of the international relations department at the Russian foreign ministry's Diplomatic Academy, Igor Panarin, this scenario has \"a roughly 50% chance of coming true\". This theory has been receiving widespread attention in the Russian state-controlled media.Another story of a similar ilk has sat at the top of the state-backed Moscow News's most-read list for the past few months: a \"prophetess\" called Vanga has predicted that Russia will dominate the world. Economists' assessments of Russia, a country that currently accounts for about 3% of global GDP (comparable with the UK) and with per capita GDP at a quarter of the US level, are somewhat more sobering. Its economy is in serious trouble after years of neglected reforms, over-reliance on commodities and a failure to tackle rampant corruption. Some point to Russia's large currency reserves, but these have declined by over one quarter since August, and are rapidly disappearing to prop up the banking system, Kremlin-connected oligarchs and the sliding rouble. The recent gas conflict with Ukraine has been read by many as driven by the increasing financial woes of Gazprom and Russia. The Russian leadership's response to the crisis has so far had two main thrusts \u2013 first, to protect favoured oligarchs; second, to protect the leadership from popular dissent by stopping the rouble from plummeting. No one really knows how bad Russia's economic situation is because of an opacity fed by the desire to maintain calm and cover up problems and mistakes. But that image is struggling under the weight of the crisis. Factories stand idle across Russia, and surveys show that Russians are very worried about the economy as wage cuts and layoffs hit. In the far eastern city of Vladivostok, December's economic protests have turned political.For years, critics have pointed to the need for an open debate within Russia about the country's path in order to find the best way for economic and social progress and to minimise the effect of any crisis such as the current one. But with dollars dripping down from the top and state-controlled TV pushing the image of Putin and Russia as strong and growing after years of stagnation and hardship, ideas other than the Putin model struggled to take hold.But in Russia's history, crises have often served to sober up perceptions of the country. Nicholas I (1825-1855) was renowned as the \"gendarme of Europe\". During his reign, the intelligentsia complained constantly of repression from the state on the one hand and disinterest from people on the other. Then Russia was crushed by the British in the Crimean War. Nicholas committed suicide and Russian strength was revealed to be a self-propagating myth. As society opened up, interest increased in other paths that Russia could take; people began to discuss questions of reform. London-based Russian intellectual Alexander Herzen's journal The Bell, which detailed abuses of power by state officials and proposed new, different paths for Russia, was read avidly. This discussion led the way for the reforms of Alexander II. Public debate had opened up new possibilities for economic and social change, alternative paths to a country directed by autocratic decision alone (which were ultimately not taken). As the crisis increasingly reveals the gulf between Russia's self-image and its real possibilities, the time of Panarin and Vanga could be coming to an end. Talk will surely move from fantasies about Russia challenging the US to the country's very real internal problems and how to solve them. Previously deaf ears will begin to listen as the failures of the current leadership become clear in everyday life. The question that will then be raised is one that has been asked of Russian leaders for centuries: liberalisation, or crack down?", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: The world financial crisis is exposing Russia's creaking, corrupt economy"},{"date": "2009-01-15T20:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Former KGB agent takes over the Evening Standard: it's a headline designed to get columnists at the Daily Mail trembling over their email queues. Unfortunately, Alexander Lebedev is both a shrewder operator and a more impressive character than the stereotype that the British press never tires of trotting out.The KGB, when Lebedev was serving in it in 1992 in London, comprised both the grunts and thugs whom we remember and the highly educated spies and analysts whom we conveniently don't. Operatives like Lebedev were the first to see that the Soviet system was crashing around their ears and were consequently the first to privatise their skills in Russia's fledging free market. When the elite left the service, they were not easily replaced. Lebedev became a banker. Others became bodyguards of the oligarchs. In both cases, the oligarchs became better protected and advised than their counterparts in the Russian state. It took a nationalist like Vladimir Putin to restore that balance. Some argue he still has not succeeded.But the idea that a Russian with a KGB background who takes over a newspaper in London could still constitute some inherent threat lingers in our minds. In Lebedev's case it could not be further from the truth.In his politics, Lebedev is a centrist. Like his friend and partner Mikhail Gorbachev, he has had a mixed relationship with Putin, but has been careful not to stick his head too high above the political parapet. Apart from owning a bank and (he claims) Russia's biggest producer of potatoes, Lebedev owns a Russian newspaper, the bi-weekly Novaya Gazeta. His first stab at newspaper ownership should encourage free thinkers in Britain. This is a liberal newspaper which continues to report on uncomfortable subjects such as corruption in the FSB, the successor to the KGB, and on Russia's ongoing conflict in the North Caucasus. When the paper's most famous reporter, Anna Politkovskaya, was shot dead outside her flat in Moscow, Lebedev offered $1m for information leading to the arrest of her killer \u2013 in the full knowlege that the people who ordered her killing would never be delivered to justice.But the bottom line for a pragmatist like Lebedev is survival. When another of his newspapers got a little too personal about Putin (the Moscow Korrespondent claimed Putin had an affair with an Olympic gymnast) he had no qualms about shutting it down. So its independence operates within certain limits.Lebedev keeps Novaya Gazeta at arm's length and whenever he has a statement to make, he uses his own website, not Novaya's columns. The idea that Lebedev is going to turn the Evening Standard into a voice of disaffected Russian dissidents in London is silly. Strip all the rest away and Lebedev's chief sin appears to be that he likes London. Like many Russians.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "Media", "Russia", "London", "Alexander Lebedev", "London Evening Standard", "Press freedom", "Europe"], "title": "David Hearst: Forget the stereotypes, Lebedev is a pragmatist"},{"date": "2009-03-17T13:44:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Dmitry Medvedev said today that Russia planned to boost its conventionally armed and nuclear forces to counter a growing threat from Nato, raising the spectre of a military confrontation between Moscow and the west.In a hawkish speech to Russia's top generals, Medvedev said Russia intended to upgrade its army and navy from 2011. Russia would also overhaul its strategic nuclear forces in an effort to guarantee the country's \"security\", he said.The modernisation was necessary because of the danger posed by the west's transatlantic military alliance, he said. \"Attempts to expand the military infrastructure of Nato near the borders of our country are continuing.\"Medvedev's remarks come two weeks before his first meeting with President Barack Obama, at the G20 summit in London on 2 April. The Obama administration has said it wants to \"reset\" its troubled relations with Moscow \u2013 but has so far received mixed signals from the Kremlin.Russia has offered to assist the US in the transport of non-military supplies to Afghanistan. At the same time, however, Moscow agreed a backroom deal last month with Kyrgyzstan which is likely to lead to the closure of the US's key military base in central Asia.At issue is what Moscow regards as the west's creeping encroachment into Russia's backyard. Russia vehemently objects to Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine, and is also bitterly opposed to the deployment of the US's proposed missile defence shield in central Europe \u2013 currently under review.Today, Russia's defence minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, said the world situation meant the \"likelihood of armed conflicts and their potential danger for Russia\" was rising. \"The military-political situation is characterised by the US leadership's desire \u2026 to expand its military presence and that of its allies in regions adjacent to Russia,\" he declared.America was actively trying to steal energy and mineral resources in central Asia and other post-Soviet countries on Russia's borders, he complained, adding that the US was \"actively supporting processes aimed at ousting Russia from the area of its traditional interests\".Medvedev said today that Russia's security council was drawing up a new national security strategy for the period up to 2020. The strategy is likely to identify the main threat to Russia as western military expansion and the growing struggle for energy resources, analysts suggest. The old strategy identified the biggest challenge as terrorism.\"The primary task is to increase the combat readiness of our forces. First of all, our strategic nuclear forces,\" Medvedev said. \"They must be able to fulfil all the necessary tasks to ensure Russia's security.\"Medvedev also said another task on Russia's agenda was to transfer all combat units to a state of \"permanent readiness\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nato", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Kyrgyzstan", "Nuclear weapons", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia announces new arms race"},{"date": "2009-01-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Russia once again resorts to aggressive economic tactics in its latest dispute over gas supplies with neighbouring Ukraine, its official state documentation is raising the spectre of future military conflict over energy resources. Russia's security council prepared a draft document on national security strategy until 2020. At a joint security council and state council meeting held in Moscow on 25 December and chaired by Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, the document in question was to be discussed, but this was postponed at the last minute, instead concentrating on Russian policy in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).President Medvedev ordered a new security strategy in June 2008, and its draft form has been discussed among all its regions. The \"strategy of national security of the Russian Federation until the year 2020\" \u2013 written under the direction of Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of the security council, is expected to be adopted at a state council meeting on 20 February 2009. In early December 2008 Patrushev toured Russia's federal districts promoting the new security strategy. Following a meeting on national security in the far eastern city of Blagoveshchensk he said the proposed draft was pragmatic and practical, and lists specific measures to ensure Russia's national security.The document itself begins with the claim that Russia has overcome the \"consequences of the systemic political and socioeconomic crisis of the late 20th century\" and has now restored its capacity to promote its national interest through \"multipolar international relations\". After predictably designating the United States as Russia's main rival, it then turns to how Russia may maintain its position in the world in future and describes rivalry for controlling global energy resources as a longer term source of conflict. The regions where such confrontations are expected to sharpen is also defined: \"The international policy will focus on the access to the energy sources of the world, including the Middle East, Barents Sea, the Arctic Region, Caspian Sea and Central Asia. The struggle for the hydrocarbon resources can be developed to the military confrontation as well, which can result with violation of balance on the Russia's borders with the allies and increasing of the nuclear countries\". It also suggests existing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, Middle East, some of the South Asian and African countries, as well as in Korean peninsula will have a continued negative impact on the international situation over the next 12 years.Emphasising possible future Nato enlargement, the new strategy promises to resist US plans to develop its missile defence capabilities, which the Russian elite claims are being aimed against Russia, rather than North Korea or Iran. Furthermore, Russia will pursue a \"pragmatic foreign policy\" which eschews a new arms race, which clearly the country cannot afford in any case.Despite widespread disagreement among Russian academics and security experts, the document assumes the possibility of future military conflict erupting over energy resources. Its current gas dispute with Ukraine compelled the Russian government to downplay fears within the EU of any possible disruption to energy supplies, has triggered speculation of increased gas prices in the UK and recently disclosed British government documents confirm that during the last Russo-Ukrainian energy dispute in 2006 the UK energy minister Alan Johnson was briefed eight times on threats to energy security emanating from Russia. Russia's pursuit of the \"multipolar world order\" will involve support from its allies in the CIS and its partners elsewhere. It pledges deeper participation within the G8, G20, RIC (Russia, India, China) and BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China). Although referring positively to its allies within the collective security treaty organisation, there is no doubt that drawing on the lessons of its experience of the Georgia war last August, Russia will rely more on its own devices and especially its armed forces, which are promised financial and other resources \"sufficient\" for the creation of a new image of the armed forces while retaining its strategic nuclear potential. The strategy also calls for establishing a \"highly professional community of Russian secret services\" as a means of ensuring the external and internal security of Russia and developing a \"national framework of dealing with international terrorism, extremism, nationalism, and ethnic separatism\". All this implies that Russia will continue to use its intelligence services at home and abroad to exaggerate Russia's power and its image in the world. Almost bombastic in its tone, once again portraying an \"image\" of a resurgent Russia, the new security strategy neglects real risks stemming from falling production and social hardship \u2013 these are not risks based on an imaginary enemy attacking Russia for its energy resources. The price of oil has fallen sharply, the world's economy is slowing down and the financial crisis is hitting Russia hard: the country's political leadership must adjust to new harsh economic realities, but instead chooses to flex military \"muscle\".", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roger McDermott: A draft of Russia's security strategy suggests it is geared up for the possibility of conflict over energy resources"},{"date": "2009-03-19T11:28:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has banned the hunting of baby harp seals. The decision comes weeks after the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, reportedly called the hunt a \"bloody industry\".The natural resources ministry said the Russian federal fisheries agency issued an order yesterday, protecting harp seal pups up to a year old.\"The bloody sight of the hunting of seals, the slaughter of these defenceless animals, which you cannot even call a real hunt, is banned in our country, just as well as in most developed countries. This is a serious step to protect the biodiversity of the Russian Federation,\" the Russian ecology minister, Yuri Trutnev, said in a statement.It was not immediately clear whether the ban included exceptions for indigenous communities.Russia's harp seal population has decreased by a third in the past decade, to about 200,000, squeezed by hunting as well as shrinking Arctic ice in the White Sea region, where much of the Russian population lives.According to the state-run newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta, Putin told a cabinet meeting on 26 February that seal hunting was a \"bloody industry and it's clear that it should have been banned long ago\".In addition to Russia, commercial seal hunting is conducted in Namibia, Greenland, Sweden and Finland, as well as in Canada, which is home to the world's largest annual commercial seal hunt. The Canadian hunt is due to begin later this month.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Russia", "World news", "Environment", "Animals", "Animal welfare", "Europe"], "title": "Russia bans hunting of baby harp seals"},{"date": "2009-03-04T17:00:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "News broke yesterday that US President Barack Obama sent Russian President Dimitry Medvedev a letter suggesting that the US would forego construction of a missile defence system in Poland in exchange for Russian agreement not to support Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. As US secretary of defence Robert Gates indicated last week in Krakow: \"If there were no Iranian missile programme, there would be no need for the missile sites.\"Spencer Ackerman, among others, has suggested that this represents a quid pro quo on Iran and missile defence. Quid pro quo, however, means \"something for something\", and to treat this deal as a quid pro quo implies that the US is giving up something of value in return for Russian action.On the contrary, the Obama administration does not particularly value missile defence, and Russia cannot deliver an end to Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes. What this offer really represents is an effort to reset relations between the US and Russia, by placing the two countries on a more or less equal playing field.It seems unlikely that the Obama administration will go through with construction of the eastern European missile defence shield, even if Russia fails to cut Iran off. Obama's lack of enthusiasm on missile defence was apparent during the campaign, which led to President George Bush's efforts to \"lock in\" missile defence by concluding agreements with both Poland and the Czech Republic.Were Obama serious about exchanging missile defence for Russia's assistance to Iran, he wouldn't have been hinting at the elimination of the programme for the last several months. Rather, he'd be trying to convince the Russians that he actually valued missile defence. As it is, Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin should know that they'll get American concessions on missile defence without offering any of their own on Iran.The notion that Russia can prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles is equally problematic. Iran can achieve nuclear capability and build long-range ballistic missiles with or without Russia's assistance. Strong commercial relations between Russia and Iran, as well as Russian technical assistance for Iran's civilian nuclear program, can certainly accelerate the progress of Iran's weapons programme, but they are not preconditions for its existence. The best Russia can offer, therefore, is a delay in Iran's nuclear weapon and ballistic missile programmes, not their elimination.Everyone should know these things, on both the Russian and the American sides. This letter is less about missile defence than an effort to \"reboot\" the relationship between the US and Russia. Through the letter, Obama is conveying a degree of respect for Russia that often appeared missing during the Bush years.Bush's treatment of Russia on this issue was premised on the notion that the US had the right to construct a missile defence system, but Russia did not have the right to conduct commercial relations with Iran that might facilitate the latter's efforts to build nuclear weapons. In other words, the US was a legitimate actor on the international stage, while Russia was a bad actor that required discipline.The act of offering a quid pro quo, on the other hand, implies that Russia and the US are on equal footing, if not necessarily equal. This is true whether or not the offer actually involves sacrifice of dearly held American foreign policy goals. The letter from Obama to Medvedev doesn't propose a quid pro quo, but it does represent an innovative effort to improve US-Russian relations. Dumping missile defence is a win-win for the US and Russia, and Obama is trying to use this victory as a platform for improving relations across the board.Although serious problems remain between Russia and the US, (not least Russia's authoritarian turn and its relations with the near abroad) this effort does imply that Obama will approach Russia policy with a different attitude than either the Bush or Clinton administrations.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Farley: Obama's letter to Russia on Iran and missile defence isn't a quid pro quo"},{"date": "2009-01-20T08:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Barack Obama prepares for his inauguration, one analyst has suggested that the US faces more serious trouble than even the most pessimistic economists have forecast. The entire economy is set to crash by November, leaving states fighting among themselves and leading to disintegration into six parts by summer 2010. As the weakened parts fall under foreign influence, Russia will take the golden opportunity to replace the US as the world's foremost superpower.According to the former KGB analyst and dean of the international relations department at the Russian foreign ministry's Diplomatic Academy, Igor Panarin, this scenario has \"a roughly 50% chance of coming true\". This theory has been receiving widespread attention in the Russian state-controlled media.Another story of a similar ilk has sat at the top of the state-backed Moscow News's most-read list for the past few months: a \"prophetess\" called Vanga has predicted that Russia will dominate the world. Economists' assessments of Russia, a country that currently accounts for about 3% of global GDP (comparable with the UK) and with per capita GDP at a quarter of the US level, are somewhat more sobering. Its economy is in serious trouble after years of neglected reforms, over-reliance on commodities and a failure to tackle rampant corruption. Some point to Russia's large currency reserves, but these have declined by over one quarter since August, and are rapidly disappearing to prop up the banking system, Kremlin-connected oligarchs and the sliding rouble. The recent gas conflict with Ukraine has been read by many as driven by the increasing financial woes of Gazprom and Russia. The Russian leadership's response to the crisis has so far had two main thrusts \u2013 first, to protect favoured oligarchs; second, to protect the leadership from popular dissent by stopping the rouble from plummeting. No one really knows how bad Russia's economic situation is because of an opacity fed by the desire to maintain calm and cover up problems and mistakes. But that image is struggling under the weight of the crisis. Factories stand idle across Russia, and surveys show that Russians are very worried about the economy as wage cuts and layoffs hit. In the far eastern city of Vladivostok, December's economic protests have turned political.For years, critics have pointed to the need for an open debate within Russia about the country's path in order to find the best way for economic and social progress and to minimise the effect of any crisis such as the current one. But with dollars dripping down from the top and state-controlled TV pushing the image of Putin and Russia as strong and growing after years of stagnation and hardship, ideas other than the Putin model struggled to take hold.But in Russia's history, crises have often served to sober up perceptions of the country. Nicholas I (1825-1855) was renowned as the \"gendarme of Europe\". During his reign, the intelligentsia complained constantly of repression from the state on the one hand and disinterest from people on the other. Then Russia was crushed by the British in the Crimean War. Nicholas committed suicide and Russian strength was revealed to be a self-propagating myth. As society opened up, interest increased in other paths that Russia could take; people began to discuss questions of reform. London-based Russian intellectual Alexander Herzen's journal The Bell, which detailed abuses of power by state officials and proposed new, different paths for Russia, was read avidly. This discussion led the way for the reforms of Alexander II. Public debate had opened up new possibilities for economic and social change, alternative paths to a country directed by autocratic decision alone (which were ultimately not taken). As the crisis increasingly reveals the gulf between Russia's self-image and its real possibilities, the time of Panarin and Vanga could be coming to an end. Talk will surely move from fantasies about Russia challenging the US to the country's very real internal problems and how to solve them. Previously deaf ears will begin to listen as the failures of the current leadership become clear in everyday life. The question that will then be raised is one that has been asked of Russian leaders for centuries: liberalisation, or crack down?", "tags": ["Credit crunch", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "James Marson: The world financial crisis is exposing Russia's creaking, corrupt economy"},{"date": "2009-01-15T20:30:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Former KGB agent takes over the Evening Standard: it's a headline designed to get columnists at the Daily Mail trembling over their email queues. Unfortunately, Alexander Lebedev is both a shrewder operator and a more impressive character than the stereotype that the British press never tires of trotting out.The KGB, when Lebedev was serving in it in 1992 in London, comprised both the grunts and thugs whom we remember and the highly educated spies and analysts whom we conveniently don't. Operatives like Lebedev were the first to see that the Soviet system was crashing around their ears and were consequently the first to privatise their skills in Russia's fledging free market. When the elite left the service, they were not easily replaced. Lebedev became a banker. Others became bodyguards of the oligarchs. In both cases, the oligarchs became better protected and advised than their counterparts in the Russian state. It took a nationalist like Vladimir Putin to restore that balance. Some argue he still has not succeeded.But the idea that a Russian with a KGB background who takes over a newspaper in London could still constitute some inherent threat lingers in our minds. In Lebedev's case it could not be further from the truth.In his politics, Lebedev is a centrist. Like his friend and partner Mikhail Gorbachev, he has had a mixed relationship with Putin, but has been careful not to stick his head too high above the political parapet. Apart from owning a bank and (he claims) Russia's biggest producer of potatoes, Lebedev owns a Russian newspaper, the bi-weekly Novaya Gazeta. His first stab at newspaper ownership should encourage free thinkers in Britain. This is a liberal newspaper which continues to report on uncomfortable subjects such as corruption in the FSB, the successor to the KGB, and on Russia's ongoing conflict in the North Caucasus. When the paper's most famous reporter, Anna Politkovskaya, was shot dead outside her flat in Moscow, Lebedev offered $1m for information leading to the arrest of her killer \u2013 in the full knowlege that the people who ordered her killing would never be delivered to justice.But the bottom line for a pragmatist like Lebedev is survival. When another of his newspapers got a little too personal about Putin (the Moscow Korrespondent claimed Putin had an affair with an Olympic gymnast) he had no qualms about shutting it down. So its independence operates within certain limits.Lebedev keeps Novaya Gazeta at arm's length and whenever he has a statement to make, he uses his own website, not Novaya's columns. The idea that Lebedev is going to turn the Evening Standard into a voice of disaffected Russian dissidents in London is silly. Strip all the rest away and Lebedev's chief sin appears to be that he likes London. Like many Russians.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "Media", "Russia", "London", "Alexander Lebedev", "London Evening Standard", "Press freedom", "Europe"], "title": "David Hearst: Forget the stereotypes, Lebedev is a pragmatist"},{"date": "2009-03-17T13:44:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Dmitry Medvedev said today that Russia planned to boost its conventionally armed and nuclear forces to counter a growing threat from Nato, raising the spectre of a military confrontation between Moscow and the west.In a hawkish speech to Russia's top generals, Medvedev said Russia intended to upgrade its army and navy from 2011. Russia would also overhaul its strategic nuclear forces in an effort to guarantee the country's \"security\", he said.The modernisation was necessary because of the danger posed by the west's transatlantic military alliance, he said. \"Attempts to expand the military infrastructure of Nato near the borders of our country are continuing.\"Medvedev's remarks come two weeks before his first meeting with President Barack Obama, at the G20 summit in London on 2 April. The Obama administration has said it wants to \"reset\" its troubled relations with Moscow \u2013 but has so far received mixed signals from the Kremlin.Russia has offered to assist the US in the transport of non-military supplies to Afghanistan. At the same time, however, Moscow agreed a backroom deal last month with Kyrgyzstan which is likely to lead to the closure of the US's key military base in central Asia.At issue is what Moscow regards as the west's creeping encroachment into Russia's backyard. Russia vehemently objects to Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine, and is also bitterly opposed to the deployment of the US's proposed missile defence shield in central Europe \u2013 currently under review.Today, Russia's defence minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, said the world situation meant the \"likelihood of armed conflicts and their potential danger for Russia\" was rising. \"The military-political situation is characterised by the US leadership's desire \u2026 to expand its military presence and that of its allies in regions adjacent to Russia,\" he declared.America was actively trying to steal energy and mineral resources in central Asia and other post-Soviet countries on Russia's borders, he complained, adding that the US was \"actively supporting processes aimed at ousting Russia from the area of its traditional interests\".Medvedev said today that Russia's security council was drawing up a new national security strategy for the period up to 2020. The strategy is likely to identify the main threat to Russia as western military expansion and the growing struggle for energy resources, analysts suggest. The old strategy identified the biggest challenge as terrorism.\"The primary task is to increase the combat readiness of our forces. First of all, our strategic nuclear forces,\" Medvedev said. \"They must be able to fulfil all the necessary tasks to ensure Russia's security.\"Medvedev also said another task on Russia's agenda was to transfer all combat units to a state of \"permanent readiness\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nato", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Kyrgyzstan", "Nuclear weapons", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia announces new arms race"},{"date": "2009-01-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Russia once again resorts to aggressive economic tactics in its latest dispute over gas supplies with neighbouring Ukraine, its official state documentation is raising the spectre of future military conflict over energy resources. Russia's security council prepared a draft document on national security strategy until 2020. At a joint security council and state council meeting held in Moscow on 25 December and chaired by Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, the document in question was to be discussed, but this was postponed at the last minute, instead concentrating on Russian policy in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).President Medvedev ordered a new security strategy in June 2008, and its draft form has been discussed among all its regions. The \"strategy of national security of the Russian Federation until the year 2020\" \u2013 written under the direction of Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of the security council, is expected to be adopted at a state council meeting on 20 February 2009. In early December 2008 Patrushev toured Russia's federal districts promoting the new security strategy. Following a meeting on national security in the far eastern city of Blagoveshchensk he said the proposed draft was pragmatic and practical, and lists specific measures to ensure Russia's national security.The document itself begins with the claim that Russia has overcome the \"consequences of the systemic political and socioeconomic crisis of the late 20th century\" and has now restored its capacity to promote its national interest through \"multipolar international relations\". After predictably designating the United States as Russia's main rival, it then turns to how Russia may maintain its position in the world in future and describes rivalry for controlling global energy resources as a longer term source of conflict. The regions where such confrontations are expected to sharpen is also defined: \"The international policy will focus on the access to the energy sources of the world, including the Middle East, Barents Sea, the Arctic Region, Caspian Sea and Central Asia. The struggle for the hydrocarbon resources can be developed to the military confrontation as well, which can result with violation of balance on the Russia's borders with the allies and increasing of the nuclear countries\". It also suggests existing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, Middle East, some of the South Asian and African countries, as well as in Korean peninsula will have a continued negative impact on the international situation over the next 12 years.Emphasising possible future Nato enlargement, the new strategy promises to resist US plans to develop its missile defence capabilities, which the Russian elite claims are being aimed against Russia, rather than North Korea or Iran. Furthermore, Russia will pursue a \"pragmatic foreign policy\" which eschews a new arms race, which clearly the country cannot afford in any case.Despite widespread disagreement among Russian academics and security experts, the document assumes the possibility of future military conflict erupting over energy resources. Its current gas dispute with Ukraine compelled the Russian government to downplay fears within the EU of any possible disruption to energy supplies, has triggered speculation of increased gas prices in the UK and recently disclosed British government documents confirm that during the last Russo-Ukrainian energy dispute in 2006 the UK energy minister Alan Johnson was briefed eight times on threats to energy security emanating from Russia. Russia's pursuit of the \"multipolar world order\" will involve support from its allies in the CIS and its partners elsewhere. It pledges deeper participation within the G8, G20, RIC (Russia, India, China) and BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China). Although referring positively to its allies within the collective security treaty organisation, there is no doubt that drawing on the lessons of its experience of the Georgia war last August, Russia will rely more on its own devices and especially its armed forces, which are promised financial and other resources \"sufficient\" for the creation of a new image of the armed forces while retaining its strategic nuclear potential. The strategy also calls for establishing a \"highly professional community of Russian secret services\" as a means of ensuring the external and internal security of Russia and developing a \"national framework of dealing with international terrorism, extremism, nationalism, and ethnic separatism\". All this implies that Russia will continue to use its intelligence services at home and abroad to exaggerate Russia's power and its image in the world. Almost bombastic in its tone, once again portraying an \"image\" of a resurgent Russia, the new security strategy neglects real risks stemming from falling production and social hardship \u2013 these are not risks based on an imaginary enemy attacking Russia for its energy resources. The price of oil has fallen sharply, the world's economy is slowing down and the financial crisis is hitting Russia hard: the country's political leadership must adjust to new harsh economic realities, but instead chooses to flex military \"muscle\".", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roger McDermott: A draft of Russia's security strategy suggests it is geared up for the possibility of conflict over energy resources"},{"date": "2009-03-19T11:28:55Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has banned the hunting of baby harp seals. The decision comes weeks after the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, reportedly called the hunt a \"bloody industry\".The natural resources ministry said the Russian federal fisheries agency issued an order yesterday, protecting harp seal pups up to a year old.\"The bloody sight of the hunting of seals, the slaughter of these defenceless animals, which you cannot even call a real hunt, is banned in our country, just as well as in most developed countries. This is a serious step to protect the biodiversity of the Russian Federation,\" the Russian ecology minister, Yuri Trutnev, said in a statement.It was not immediately clear whether the ban included exceptions for indigenous communities.Russia's harp seal population has decreased by a third in the past decade, to about 200,000, squeezed by hunting as well as shrinking Arctic ice in the White Sea region, where much of the Russian population lives.According to the state-run newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta, Putin told a cabinet meeting on 26 February that seal hunting was a \"bloody industry and it's clear that it should have been banned long ago\".In addition to Russia, commercial seal hunting is conducted in Namibia, Greenland, Sweden and Finland, as well as in Canada, which is home to the world's largest annual commercial seal hunt. The Canadian hunt is due to begin later this month.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Russia", "World news", "Environment", "Animals", "Animal welfare", "Europe"], "title": "Russia bans hunting of baby harp seals"},{"date": "2009-03-18T00:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia plans to boost both conventional armed forces and nuclear forces to counter a growing threat from Nato, President Dmitry Medvedev said yesterday, raising the spectre of a military confrontation between Moscow and the west.In a hawkish speech to Russia's top generals, Medvedev said Russia intended to upgrade the army and navy from 2011. Strategic nuclear forces would also be overhauled in an effort to guarantee the country's security. Modernisation was necessary because of the danger posed by the transatlantic military alliance. \"Attempts to expand the military infrastructure of Nato near the borders of our country are continuing,\" Medvedev said. \"The primary task is to increase the combat readiness of our forces. They must be able to fulfil all the necessary tasks to ensure Russia's security.\"Another task on Russia's agenda was to move all combat units to a state of \"permanent readiness\".Medvedev's remarks come two weeks before his first meeting with Barack Obama at the G20 summit in London on 2 April. The administration has said it wants to \"reset\" America's troubled relations with Moscow, but has received mixed signals from the Kremlin. Russia has offered to assist the US in the transport of non-military supplies to Afghanistan. At the same time, Moscow agreed a backroom deal last month with Kyrgyzstan, which is likely to lead to the closure of the US's key military base in central Asia.At issue is what Moscow regards as the west's creeping encroachment into Russia's backyard. Russia vehemently objects to Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine, and bitterly opposes the deployment of the US's proposed missile defence shield in central Europe, which is currently under review.Yesterday the Russian defence minister, Anatoly Serdyukov, said the world situation meant the \"likelihood of armed conflicts and their potential danger for Russia\" was rising. \"The military-political situation is characterised by the US leadership's desire ... to expand its military presence and that of its allies in regions adjacent to Russia,\" he said. America was trying to grab energy and mineral resources in central Asia and other post-Soviet countries on the borders with Russia, he complained, adding that Washington was \"actively supporting processes aimed at ousting Russia from the area of its traditional interests\". Later, military officials announced that Russia plans to deploy intercontinental missiles fitted with multiple warheads once the strategic arms reduction treaty [Start 1] expires in December. The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, said a new strategic arms deal with Russia was a priority. Russia has also welcomed talks on a nuclear deal. Last night Yevgeny Myasnikov, a Moscow defence analyst, said Russia's wishlist ahead of next month's Obama-Medvedev meeting was well-known. \"Russia wants an end to the US's missile deployment in Europe, a moratorium on Nato expansion, [and] a deal on Start,\" he said.He added that there were doubts as to whether Russia had enough money to modernise the crumbling Soviet-era army and navy after 2011.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia plans military upgrade to match Nato"},{"date": "2009-04-16T16:45:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "1992 Chechnya declares independence from Russia a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.1994 Russian troops invade Chechnya to crush the independence movement. The war, which kills up to 100,000 people, starts in December and lasts 20 months.1995 Chechen rebels hold hostages at a hospital in Budennovsk, southern Russia. More than are 100 killed in a Russian commando operation.1996 The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is killed in a Russian missile attack and Zemlikhan Yandarbiyev succeeds him. Rebels launch a successful attack on Grozny. The rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov signs a ceasefire with Moscow and Russian troops begin to withdraw.1997 Russia recognises Maskhadov's government and the two leaders sign a peace treaty, although the problem of Chechnya independence is still unresolved.1998 Maskhadov imposes a state of emergency amid continued unrest.1999 Maskhadov declares that sharia law will be phased in over three years. Suspected Chechen separatists carry out a series of terror attacks in Russia, killing more than 300 people. In response, the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sends Russian troops back into Chechnya. Troops fight on the Chechnya-Dagestan border and Chechen rebels invade Dagestan to try to create an Islamic state.2000 Russian troops capture the captial, Grozny, and Putin declares direct rule from Moscow. He appoints a former cleric, Akhmad Kadyrov, as head of its administration in Chechnya.2001 There are reports of widespread human rights violations in Chechnya at the hands of Russian troops, fuelled by the discovery of a mass grave filled with mutilated bodies.2002 Chechen rebels storm a Moscow theatre holding 700 people hostage for three days. All 50 rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces gas the building. In December a suicide bomb attack destroys the Grozny headquarters of Chechnya's Moscow-backed government.2003 Suicide attacks continue. Akhmad Kadyrov is elected Chechen president.2004 Kadyrov, widely regarded as a Russian puppet, is killed in a bombing. In September nearly 400 people \u2013 hundreds of them children \u2013 are killed during a siege at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. Putin blames international terrorists with links to Chechen separatist fighters.2005 In February the separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov calls a ceasefire and urges the Russian authorities to agree to peace talks. In March Russian forces say Maskhadov has been killed in a special operation in Chechnya. In May Maskhadov's successor, Abdul-Khalim Saydullayev, signals an end to peace talks with Moscow.2006: Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former Chechen leader Akhmad Kadyrov, becomes Chechen prime minister.2009: After two wars and a decade of strict security, Russia ends its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, marking the end of the Kremlin's war and enhancing the power of the president, Ramzan Kadyrov.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Chechnya and Russia: timeline"},{"date": "2009-04-16T16:45:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "1992 Chechnya declares independence from Russia a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.1994 Russian troops invade Chechnya to crush the independence movement. The war, which kills up to 100,000 people, starts in December and lasts 20 months.1995 Chechen rebels hold hostages at a hospital in Budennovsk, southern Russia. More than are 100 killed in a Russian commando operation.1996 The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is killed in a Russian missile attack and Zemlikhan Yandarbiyev succeeds him. Rebels launch a successful attack on Grozny. The rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov signs a ceasefire with Moscow and Russian troops begin to withdraw.1997 Russia recognises Maskhadov's government and the two leaders sign a peace treaty, although the problem of Chechnya independence is still unresolved.1998 Maskhadov imposes a state of emergency amid continued unrest.1999 Maskhadov declares that sharia law will be phased in over three years. Suspected Chechen separatists carry out a series of terror attacks in Russia, killing more than 300 people. In response, the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sends Russian troops back into Chechnya. Troops fight on the Chechnya-Dagestan border and Chechen rebels invade Dagestan to try to create an Islamic state.2000 Russian troops capture the captial, Grozny, and Putin declares direct rule from Moscow. He appoints a former cleric, Akhmad Kadyrov, as head of its administration in Chechnya.2001 There are reports of widespread human rights violations in Chechnya at the hands of Russian troops, fuelled by the discovery of a mass grave filled with mutilated bodies.2002 Chechen rebels storm a Moscow theatre holding 700 people hostage for three days. All 50 rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces gas the building. In December a suicide bomb attack destroys the Grozny headquarters of Chechnya's Moscow-backed government.2003 Suicide attacks continue. Akhmad Kadyrov is elected Chechen president.2004 Kadyrov, widely regarded as a Russian puppet, is killed in a bombing. In September nearly 400 people \u2013 hundreds of them children \u2013 are killed during a siege at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. Putin blames international terrorists with links to Chechen separatist fighters.2005 In February the separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov calls a ceasefire and urges the Russian authorities to agree to peace talks. In March Russian forces say Maskhadov has been killed in a special operation in Chechnya. In May Maskhadov's successor, Abdul-Khalim Saydullayev, signals an end to peace talks with Moscow.2006: Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former Chechen leader Akhmad Kadyrov, becomes Chechen prime minister.2009: After two wars and a decade of strict security, Russia ends its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, marking the end of the Kremlin's war and enhancing the power of the president, Ramzan Kadyrov.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Chechnya and Russia: timeline"},{"date": "2009-05-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is planning a fleet of floating and submersible nuclear power stations to exploit Arctic oil and gas reserves, causing widespread alarm among environmentalists.A prototype floating nuclear power station being constructed at the SevMash shipyard in Severodvinsk is due to be completed next year. Agreement to build a further four was reached between the Russian state nuclear corporation, Rosatom, and the northern Siberian republic of Yakutiya in February. The 70-megawatt plants, each of which would consist of two reactors on board giant steel platforms, would provide power to Gazprom, the oil firm which is also Russia's biggest company. It would allow Gazprom to power drills needed to exploit some of the remotest oil and gas fields in the world in the Barents and Kara seas. The self-propelled vessels would store their own waste and fuel and would need to be serviced only once every 12 to 14 years. In addition, designers are known to have developed submarine nuclear-powered drilling rigs that could allow eight wells to be drilled at a time. Bellona, a leading Scandinavian environmental watchdog group, yesterday condemned the idea of using nuclear power to open the Arctic to oil, gas and mineral production. \"It is highly risky. The risk of a nuclear accident on a floating power plant is increased. The plants' potential impact on the fragile Arctic environment through emissions of radioactivity and heat remains a major concern. If there is an accident, it would be impossible to handle,\" said Igor Kudrik, a spokesman.Environmentalists also fear that if additional radioactive waste is produced, it will be dumped into the sea. Russia has a long record of polluting the Arctic with radioactive waste. Countries including Britain have had to offer Russia billions of dollars to decommission more than 160 nuclear submarines, but at least 12 nuclear reactors are known to have been dumped, along with more than 5,000 containers of solid and liquid nuclear waste, on the northern coast and on the island of Novaya Zemlya.The US Geological Survey believes the Arctic holds up to 25% of the world's undiscovered oil and gas reserves, leading some experts to call the region the next Saudi Arabia. But sea ice, strong winds and temperatures that can dip to below -50C have made them technologically impossible to exploit. Russia, Norway, Denmark, Canada and the US have all claimed large areas of the Arctic in the past five years. Russian scientists used a mini-submarine to plant a flag below the North Pole in 2007 and have claimed that a nearby underwater ridge is part of its continental shelf.Last week, ministers from many Arctic countries heard scientists and former US vice-president and Nobel prize winner Al Gore say that the Arctic could be free of ice in the summer within five years, with drastic consequences for the world's climate and human health. But many countries bordering the Arctic see climate change as the chance to exploit areas that were once inaccessible and to open trade routes between the Pacific and Atlantic. According to a new report by the Arctic Council, an intergovernmental forum, Russia is considering other nuclear plants for power-hungry settlements. \"The locations that have been discussed include 33 towns in the Russian far north and far east. Such plants could be also used to supply energy for oil and gas extraction,\" says the report by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme.", "tags": ["Russia", "Arctic", "Nuclear power", "Pollution", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Gas", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia to build floating Arctic nuclear power stations"},{"date": "2009-04-16T16:45:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "1992 Chechnya declares independence from Russia a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.1994 Russian troops invade Chechnya to crush the independence movement. The war, which kills up to 100,000 people, starts in December and lasts 20 months.1995 Chechen rebels hold hostages at a hospital in Budennovsk, southern Russia. More than are 100 killed in a Russian commando operation.1996 The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is killed in a Russian missile attack and Zemlikhan Yandarbiyev succeeds him. Rebels launch a successful attack on Grozny. The rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov signs a ceasefire with Moscow and Russian troops begin to withdraw.1997 Russia recognises Maskhadov's government and the two leaders sign a peace treaty, although the problem of Chechnya independence is still unresolved.1998 Maskhadov imposes a state of emergency amid continued unrest.1999 Maskhadov declares that sharia law will be phased in over three years. Suspected Chechen separatists carry out a series of terror attacks in Russia, killing more than 300 people. In response, the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sends Russian troops back into Chechnya. Troops fight on the Chechnya-Dagestan border and Chechen rebels invade Dagestan to try to create an Islamic state.2000 Russian troops capture the captial, Grozny, and Putin declares direct rule from Moscow. He appoints a former cleric, Akhmad Kadyrov, as head of its administration in Chechnya.2001 There are reports of widespread human rights violations in Chechnya at the hands of Russian troops, fuelled by the discovery of a mass grave filled with mutilated bodies.2002 Chechen rebels storm a Moscow theatre holding 700 people hostage for three days. All 50 rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces gas the building. In December a suicide bomb attack destroys the Grozny headquarters of Chechnya's Moscow-backed government.2003 Suicide attacks continue. Akhmad Kadyrov is elected Chechen president.2004 Kadyrov, widely regarded as a Russian puppet, is killed in a bombing. In September nearly 400 people \u2013 hundreds of them children \u2013 are killed during a siege at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. Putin blames international terrorists with links to Chechen separatist fighters.2005 In February the separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov calls a ceasefire and urges the Russian authorities to agree to peace talks. In March Russian forces say Maskhadov has been killed in a special operation in Chechnya. In May Maskhadov's successor, Abdul-Khalim Saydullayev, signals an end to peace talks with Moscow.2006: Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former Chechen leader Akhmad Kadyrov, becomes Chechen prime minister.2009: After two wars and a decade of strict security, Russia ends its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, marking the end of the Kremlin's war and enhancing the power of the president, Ramzan Kadyrov.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Chechnya and Russia: timeline"},{"date": "2009-05-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is planning a fleet of floating and submersible nuclear power stations to exploit Arctic oil and gas reserves, causing widespread alarm among environmentalists.A prototype floating nuclear power station being constructed at the SevMash shipyard in Severodvinsk is due to be completed next year. Agreement to build a further four was reached between the Russian state nuclear corporation, Rosatom, and the northern Siberian republic of Yakutiya in February. The 70-megawatt plants, each of which would consist of two reactors on board giant steel platforms, would provide power to Gazprom, the oil firm which is also Russia's biggest company. It would allow Gazprom to power drills needed to exploit some of the remotest oil and gas fields in the world in the Barents and Kara seas. The self-propelled vessels would store their own waste and fuel and would need to be serviced only once every 12 to 14 years. In addition, designers are known to have developed submarine nuclear-powered drilling rigs that could allow eight wells to be drilled at a time. Bellona, a leading Scandinavian environmental watchdog group, yesterday condemned the idea of using nuclear power to open the Arctic to oil, gas and mineral production. \"It is highly risky. The risk of a nuclear accident on a floating power plant is increased. The plants' potential impact on the fragile Arctic environment through emissions of radioactivity and heat remains a major concern. If there is an accident, it would be impossible to handle,\" said Igor Kudrik, a spokesman.Environmentalists also fear that if additional radioactive waste is produced, it will be dumped into the sea. Russia has a long record of polluting the Arctic with radioactive waste. Countries including Britain have had to offer Russia billions of dollars to decommission more than 160 nuclear submarines, but at least 12 nuclear reactors are known to have been dumped, along with more than 5,000 containers of solid and liquid nuclear waste, on the northern coast and on the island of Novaya Zemlya.The US Geological Survey believes the Arctic holds up to 25% of the world's undiscovered oil and gas reserves, leading some experts to call the region the next Saudi Arabia. But sea ice, strong winds and temperatures that can dip to below -50C have made them technologically impossible to exploit. Russia, Norway, Denmark, Canada and the US have all claimed large areas of the Arctic in the past five years. Russian scientists used a mini-submarine to plant a flag below the North Pole in 2007 and have claimed that a nearby underwater ridge is part of its continental shelf.Last week, ministers from many Arctic countries heard scientists and former US vice-president and Nobel prize winner Al Gore say that the Arctic could be free of ice in the summer within five years, with drastic consequences for the world's climate and human health. But many countries bordering the Arctic see climate change as the chance to exploit areas that were once inaccessible and to open trade routes between the Pacific and Atlantic. According to a new report by the Arctic Council, an intergovernmental forum, Russia is considering other nuclear plants for power-hungry settlements. \"The locations that have been discussed include 33 towns in the Russian far north and far east. Such plants could be also used to supply energy for oil and gas extraction,\" says the report by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme.", "tags": ["Russia", "Arctic", "Nuclear power", "Pollution", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Gas", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia to build floating Arctic nuclear power stations"},{"date": "2009-04-16T13:08:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today agreed to end its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, in a move that signals the formal end of the Kremlin's war in the republic and enhances the power of Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov.Russia's national anti-terrorist committee said military restrictions in force in Chechnya would be abolished from today. Moscow has maintained a strict security regime for a decade in Chechnya, the scene of two wars against separatist rebels.Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sent troops into Chechnya in 1999. His aim was to win back the region, which had enjoyed de-facto independence since the first Chechen war in 1994-1996. The security regime included arbitrary arrests, roadblocks, curfews and restrictions on journalists.This morning Kadyrov, a close ally of Putin, welcomed the decision to end anti-terrorist operations. \"We are extremely satisfied. The modern Chechen republic is a peaceful and budding territory. The end of the counterterrorist operation will spur on economic growth in the republic,\" he told the Russian news agency Interfax.However, the decision raises troubling questions about the growing autonomy enjoyed by Kadyrov, who inherited the job after his father, Akhmad, then Chechnya's president, was killed in 2004. After winning the second Chechen war in 2000, Putin entrusted the republic to Akhmad Kadyrov, a moderate former separatist.In return for abandoning their struggle for independence, Akhmad Kadyrov and other ex-separatists were granted sweeping powers and autonomy denied to other Russian republics. Moscow also agreed to turn a blind eye to human rights abuses. The policy appeared to work. Chechnya's shell-ridden capital, Grozny, was transformed.But some inside the Kremlin have questioned whether Putin's policy of entrusting power to Chechens - known as \"Chechenisation\" - has gone too far. Kadyrov has been repeatedly accused of murdering his enemies, including the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a critic who described him as a \"coward armed to the teeth\". He denies involvement in her death.In January, a Chechen exile, Umar Israilov, who had accused Kadryov of torturing him was shot dead in a street in Vienna. And last month, Sulim Yamadayev, a former Chechen rebel commander who fell out with Kadyrov, was shot dead in Dubai. Police in the United Arab Emirates accused Kadyrov's cousin and heir apparent, Adam Delimkhanov, of ordering the assassination.Russian newspapers today suggested that some inside the Russian government now believe Kadyrov has grown far too powerful, but have little idea how to keep control of him. One analyst said Chechnya now enjoys the kind of autonomy that its separatist leaders in the 1990s had failed to achieve, while remaining a part of the Russian Federation.\"It would be difficult to describe Chechnya as peaceful. But Kadyrov has achieved 'stability' in the Russian and Chechen definition of the word,\" Sergei Markedonov, of Moscow's Institute for Political and Military Studies, wrote in theMoscow Times.\"Nonetheless this stability has come at a very high price. The flip side is that Chechnya's internal political issues are largely resolved without Russia and with minimal adherence to federal laws,\" he added. \"In this sense, a new type of separatism has won out in Chechnya.\"Russia's national anti-terrorist committee today said the end of the counterterrorism operation was a chance for Chechnya to return to normal. \"This decision aims to create conditions to further normalise the situation in the region, to restore and develop its economic and social infrastructure,\" it declared.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia ends anti-terrorism operations in Chechnya"},{"date": "2009-04-16T16:45:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "1992 Chechnya declares independence from Russia a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.1994 Russian troops invade Chechnya to crush the independence movement. The war, which kills up to 100,000 people, starts in December and lasts 20 months.1995 Chechen rebels hold hostages at a hospital in Budennovsk, southern Russia. More than are 100 killed in a Russian commando operation.1996 The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is killed in a Russian missile attack and Zemlikhan Yandarbiyev succeeds him. Rebels launch a successful attack on Grozny. The rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov signs a ceasefire with Moscow and Russian troops begin to withdraw.1997 Russia recognises Maskhadov's government and the two leaders sign a peace treaty, although the problem of Chechnya independence is still unresolved.1998 Maskhadov imposes a state of emergency amid continued unrest.1999 Maskhadov declares that sharia law will be phased in over three years. Suspected Chechen separatists carry out a series of terror attacks in Russia, killing more than 300 people. In response, the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sends Russian troops back into Chechnya. Troops fight on the Chechnya-Dagestan border and Chechen rebels invade Dagestan to try to create an Islamic state.2000 Russian troops capture the captial, Grozny, and Putin declares direct rule from Moscow. He appoints a former cleric, Akhmad Kadyrov, as head of its administration in Chechnya.2001 There are reports of widespread human rights violations in Chechnya at the hands of Russian troops, fuelled by the discovery of a mass grave filled with mutilated bodies.2002 Chechen rebels storm a Moscow theatre holding 700 people hostage for three days. All 50 rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces gas the building. In December a suicide bomb attack destroys the Grozny headquarters of Chechnya's Moscow-backed government.2003 Suicide attacks continue. Akhmad Kadyrov is elected Chechen president.2004 Kadyrov, widely regarded as a Russian puppet, is killed in a bombing. In September nearly 400 people \u2013 hundreds of them children \u2013 are killed during a siege at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. Putin blames international terrorists with links to Chechen separatist fighters.2005 In February the separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov calls a ceasefire and urges the Russian authorities to agree to peace talks. In March Russian forces say Maskhadov has been killed in a special operation in Chechnya. In May Maskhadov's successor, Abdul-Khalim Saydullayev, signals an end to peace talks with Moscow.2006: Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former Chechen leader Akhmad Kadyrov, becomes Chechen prime minister.2009: After two wars and a decade of strict security, Russia ends its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, marking the end of the Kremlin's war and enhancing the power of the president, Ramzan Kadyrov.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Chechnya and Russia: timeline"},{"date": "2009-05-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is planning a fleet of floating and submersible nuclear power stations to exploit Arctic oil and gas reserves, causing widespread alarm among environmentalists.A prototype floating nuclear power station being constructed at the SevMash shipyard in Severodvinsk is due to be completed next year. Agreement to build a further four was reached between the Russian state nuclear corporation, Rosatom, and the northern Siberian republic of Yakutiya in February. The 70-megawatt plants, each of which would consist of two reactors on board giant steel platforms, would provide power to Gazprom, the oil firm which is also Russia's biggest company. It would allow Gazprom to power drills needed to exploit some of the remotest oil and gas fields in the world in the Barents and Kara seas. The self-propelled vessels would store their own waste and fuel and would need to be serviced only once every 12 to 14 years. In addition, designers are known to have developed submarine nuclear-powered drilling rigs that could allow eight wells to be drilled at a time. Bellona, a leading Scandinavian environmental watchdog group, yesterday condemned the idea of using nuclear power to open the Arctic to oil, gas and mineral production. \"It is highly risky. The risk of a nuclear accident on a floating power plant is increased. The plants' potential impact on the fragile Arctic environment through emissions of radioactivity and heat remains a major concern. If there is an accident, it would be impossible to handle,\" said Igor Kudrik, a spokesman.Environmentalists also fear that if additional radioactive waste is produced, it will be dumped into the sea. Russia has a long record of polluting the Arctic with radioactive waste. Countries including Britain have had to offer Russia billions of dollars to decommission more than 160 nuclear submarines, but at least 12 nuclear reactors are known to have been dumped, along with more than 5,000 containers of solid and liquid nuclear waste, on the northern coast and on the island of Novaya Zemlya.The US Geological Survey believes the Arctic holds up to 25% of the world's undiscovered oil and gas reserves, leading some experts to call the region the next Saudi Arabia. But sea ice, strong winds and temperatures that can dip to below -50C have made them technologically impossible to exploit. Russia, Norway, Denmark, Canada and the US have all claimed large areas of the Arctic in the past five years. Russian scientists used a mini-submarine to plant a flag below the North Pole in 2007 and have claimed that a nearby underwater ridge is part of its continental shelf.Last week, ministers from many Arctic countries heard scientists and former US vice-president and Nobel prize winner Al Gore say that the Arctic could be free of ice in the summer within five years, with drastic consequences for the world's climate and human health. But many countries bordering the Arctic see climate change as the chance to exploit areas that were once inaccessible and to open trade routes between the Pacific and Atlantic. According to a new report by the Arctic Council, an intergovernmental forum, Russia is considering other nuclear plants for power-hungry settlements. \"The locations that have been discussed include 33 towns in the Russian far north and far east. Such plants could be also used to supply energy for oil and gas extraction,\" says the report by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme.", "tags": ["Russia", "Arctic", "Nuclear power", "Pollution", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Gas", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia to build floating Arctic nuclear power stations"},{"date": "2009-04-16T13:08:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today agreed to end its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, in a move that signals the formal end of the Kremlin's war in the republic and enhances the power of Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov.Russia's national anti-terrorist committee said military restrictions in force in Chechnya would be abolished from today. Moscow has maintained a strict security regime for a decade in Chechnya, the scene of two wars against separatist rebels.Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sent troops into Chechnya in 1999. His aim was to win back the region, which had enjoyed de-facto independence since the first Chechen war in 1994-1996. The security regime included arbitrary arrests, roadblocks, curfews and restrictions on journalists.This morning Kadyrov, a close ally of Putin, welcomed the decision to end anti-terrorist operations. \"We are extremely satisfied. The modern Chechen republic is a peaceful and budding territory. The end of the counterterrorist operation will spur on economic growth in the republic,\" he told the Russian news agency Interfax.However, the decision raises troubling questions about the growing autonomy enjoyed by Kadyrov, who inherited the job after his father, Akhmad, then Chechnya's president, was killed in 2004. After winning the second Chechen war in 2000, Putin entrusted the republic to Akhmad Kadyrov, a moderate former separatist.In return for abandoning their struggle for independence, Akhmad Kadyrov and other ex-separatists were granted sweeping powers and autonomy denied to other Russian republics. Moscow also agreed to turn a blind eye to human rights abuses. The policy appeared to work. Chechnya's shell-ridden capital, Grozny, was transformed.But some inside the Kremlin have questioned whether Putin's policy of entrusting power to Chechens - known as \"Chechenisation\" - has gone too far. Kadyrov has been repeatedly accused of murdering his enemies, including the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a critic who described him as a \"coward armed to the teeth\". He denies involvement in her death.In January, a Chechen exile, Umar Israilov, who had accused Kadryov of torturing him was shot dead in a street in Vienna. And last month, Sulim Yamadayev, a former Chechen rebel commander who fell out with Kadyrov, was shot dead in Dubai. Police in the United Arab Emirates accused Kadyrov's cousin and heir apparent, Adam Delimkhanov, of ordering the assassination.Russian newspapers today suggested that some inside the Russian government now believe Kadyrov has grown far too powerful, but have little idea how to keep control of him. One analyst said Chechnya now enjoys the kind of autonomy that its separatist leaders in the 1990s had failed to achieve, while remaining a part of the Russian Federation.\"It would be difficult to describe Chechnya as peaceful. But Kadyrov has achieved 'stability' in the Russian and Chechen definition of the word,\" Sergei Markedonov, of Moscow's Institute for Political and Military Studies, wrote in theMoscow Times.\"Nonetheless this stability has come at a very high price. The flip side is that Chechnya's internal political issues are largely resolved without Russia and with minimal adherence to federal laws,\" he added. \"In this sense, a new type of separatism has won out in Chechnya.\"Russia's national anti-terrorist committee today said the end of the counterterrorism operation was a chance for Chechnya to return to normal. \"This decision aims to create conditions to further normalise the situation in the region, to restore and develop its economic and social infrastructure,\" it declared.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia ends anti-terrorism operations in Chechnya"},{"date": "2009-04-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Bill Clinton hugged Boris Yeltsin and it ended in the collapse of the rouble and a war in Chechnya. George Bush looked deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes and they parted company trading missile threats amid a war in Georgia. Barack Obama pressed the reset button with Dmitry Medvedev yesterday and produced a four-page shopping list of subjects about which they would continue to talk - chief among them the intention to cut nuclear arsenals by a third. Whatever today brings with the G20, particularly after the public splits between France and Germany, the US president's first international foray has already achieved results. The cold warriors, who say the west should stand up to Russia rather than engage with it, predict that the relationship between Mr Obama and Mr Medvedev will also end in tears. But there is a self-fulfilling quality to the notion that Russia should only be allowed to join our game when it plays by our rules.Mr Obama has seen a chance to create a virtuous circle. By offering to go slow on missile defence, he could generate Russian pressure on Iran to abandon its attempts to build a nuclear bomb. Russia is key to persuading Iran to stay within the bounds of a civilian nuclear programme, because it is helping Tehran build one. The abandonment of a covert Iranian plan to build the bomb would obviate the need for a missile defence battery close to Russia's border. Deep differences remain over both the missile defence programme and Georgia. Mr Obama said he had no interest in papering over the cracks. But his is more than just a change in tone. The real change is that America has decided to stop making progress on bigger fronts - strategic nuclear arsenals, non-proliferation, military transit routes to Afghanistan - hostage to problems on lesser ones. This could be more fruitful than confronting Russia for two reasons. Russia is no longer a rival superpower, but it is the world's second largest nuclear power. The new dialogue re-establishes a partnership which existed during Mikhail Gorbachev's era, but which disappeared during the Clinton and Bush years. Agreeing to cuts in nuclear arsenals is well within Russia's comfort zone, although it will be more difficult to achieve now that its conventional forces are so much weaker. Second, with a strengthened bilateral relationship, America will be less inclined than it was to see Russia through the distorting prism of former Soviet satellite states. Both Ukraine and Georgia have got their own complex political problems, irrespective of Russia. Their instability is not solely down to the machiavellian manoeuvring of Moscow. Of course, Russia today is less confident than it was only six months ago. Its once-booming economy has screeched to a halt. December saw a double-digit percentage fall in its industrial output. The cranes stopped swinging in Moscow and unemployment is spiralling, despite the practice of companies reducing salaries rather than labour. Tolyatti, the home of the Russian car industry, is in an even worse state than Detroit, and there are demonstrations against Vladimir Putin, the man most Russians venerate. This is no different to what is happening in the UK, except that in Russia inflation is also booming and private debt is out of control. So a poorer Russia could make for a less assertive one.There are bound to be setbacks. Competing visions of national interest, competing gas pipelines and the natural tendency of Russia's neighbours to look west for support will continue to create tensions. A bilateral relationship between Russia and America is easier to achieve than one between Russia and the European Union, which will become more dependent, not less, on Russian gas. But for all this, the path on which two presidents embarked yesterday is the right one - the only one that can ensure Russia's true place as a regional power spanning both Europe and Asia.", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Easing the chill"},{"date": "2009-04-16T16:45:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "1992 Chechnya declares independence from Russia a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.1994 Russian troops invade Chechnya to crush the independence movement. The war, which kills up to 100,000 people, starts in December and lasts 20 months.1995 Chechen rebels hold hostages at a hospital in Budennovsk, southern Russia. More than are 100 killed in a Russian commando operation.1996 The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is killed in a Russian missile attack and Zemlikhan Yandarbiyev succeeds him. Rebels launch a successful attack on Grozny. The rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov signs a ceasefire with Moscow and Russian troops begin to withdraw.1997 Russia recognises Maskhadov's government and the two leaders sign a peace treaty, although the problem of Chechnya independence is still unresolved.1998 Maskhadov imposes a state of emergency amid continued unrest.1999 Maskhadov declares that sharia law will be phased in over three years. Suspected Chechen separatists carry out a series of terror attacks in Russia, killing more than 300 people. In response, the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sends Russian troops back into Chechnya. Troops fight on the Chechnya-Dagestan border and Chechen rebels invade Dagestan to try to create an Islamic state.2000 Russian troops capture the captial, Grozny, and Putin declares direct rule from Moscow. He appoints a former cleric, Akhmad Kadyrov, as head of its administration in Chechnya.2001 There are reports of widespread human rights violations in Chechnya at the hands of Russian troops, fuelled by the discovery of a mass grave filled with mutilated bodies.2002 Chechen rebels storm a Moscow theatre holding 700 people hostage for three days. All 50 rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces gas the building. In December a suicide bomb attack destroys the Grozny headquarters of Chechnya's Moscow-backed government.2003 Suicide attacks continue. Akhmad Kadyrov is elected Chechen president.2004 Kadyrov, widely regarded as a Russian puppet, is killed in a bombing. In September nearly 400 people \u2013 hundreds of them children \u2013 are killed during a siege at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. Putin blames international terrorists with links to Chechen separatist fighters.2005 In February the separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov calls a ceasefire and urges the Russian authorities to agree to peace talks. In March Russian forces say Maskhadov has been killed in a special operation in Chechnya. In May Maskhadov's successor, Abdul-Khalim Saydullayev, signals an end to peace talks with Moscow.2006: Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former Chechen leader Akhmad Kadyrov, becomes Chechen prime minister.2009: After two wars and a decade of strict security, Russia ends its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, marking the end of the Kremlin's war and enhancing the power of the president, Ramzan Kadyrov.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Chechnya and Russia: timeline"},{"date": "2009-05-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is planning a fleet of floating and submersible nuclear power stations to exploit Arctic oil and gas reserves, causing widespread alarm among environmentalists.A prototype floating nuclear power station being constructed at the SevMash shipyard in Severodvinsk is due to be completed next year. Agreement to build a further four was reached between the Russian state nuclear corporation, Rosatom, and the northern Siberian republic of Yakutiya in February. The 70-megawatt plants, each of which would consist of two reactors on board giant steel platforms, would provide power to Gazprom, the oil firm which is also Russia's biggest company. It would allow Gazprom to power drills needed to exploit some of the remotest oil and gas fields in the world in the Barents and Kara seas. The self-propelled vessels would store their own waste and fuel and would need to be serviced only once every 12 to 14 years. In addition, designers are known to have developed submarine nuclear-powered drilling rigs that could allow eight wells to be drilled at a time. Bellona, a leading Scandinavian environmental watchdog group, yesterday condemned the idea of using nuclear power to open the Arctic to oil, gas and mineral production. \"It is highly risky. The risk of a nuclear accident on a floating power plant is increased. The plants' potential impact on the fragile Arctic environment through emissions of radioactivity and heat remains a major concern. If there is an accident, it would be impossible to handle,\" said Igor Kudrik, a spokesman.Environmentalists also fear that if additional radioactive waste is produced, it will be dumped into the sea. Russia has a long record of polluting the Arctic with radioactive waste. Countries including Britain have had to offer Russia billions of dollars to decommission more than 160 nuclear submarines, but at least 12 nuclear reactors are known to have been dumped, along with more than 5,000 containers of solid and liquid nuclear waste, on the northern coast and on the island of Novaya Zemlya.The US Geological Survey believes the Arctic holds up to 25% of the world's undiscovered oil and gas reserves, leading some experts to call the region the next Saudi Arabia. But sea ice, strong winds and temperatures that can dip to below -50C have made them technologically impossible to exploit. Russia, Norway, Denmark, Canada and the US have all claimed large areas of the Arctic in the past five years. Russian scientists used a mini-submarine to plant a flag below the North Pole in 2007 and have claimed that a nearby underwater ridge is part of its continental shelf.Last week, ministers from many Arctic countries heard scientists and former US vice-president and Nobel prize winner Al Gore say that the Arctic could be free of ice in the summer within five years, with drastic consequences for the world's climate and human health. But many countries bordering the Arctic see climate change as the chance to exploit areas that were once inaccessible and to open trade routes between the Pacific and Atlantic. According to a new report by the Arctic Council, an intergovernmental forum, Russia is considering other nuclear plants for power-hungry settlements. \"The locations that have been discussed include 33 towns in the Russian far north and far east. Such plants could be also used to supply energy for oil and gas extraction,\" says the report by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme.", "tags": ["Russia", "Arctic", "Nuclear power", "Pollution", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Gas", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia to build floating Arctic nuclear power stations"},{"date": "2009-04-16T13:08:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today agreed to end its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, in a move that signals the formal end of the Kremlin's war in the republic and enhances the power of Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov.Russia's national anti-terrorist committee said military restrictions in force in Chechnya would be abolished from today. Moscow has maintained a strict security regime for a decade in Chechnya, the scene of two wars against separatist rebels.Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sent troops into Chechnya in 1999. His aim was to win back the region, which had enjoyed de-facto independence since the first Chechen war in 1994-1996. The security regime included arbitrary arrests, roadblocks, curfews and restrictions on journalists.This morning Kadyrov, a close ally of Putin, welcomed the decision to end anti-terrorist operations. \"We are extremely satisfied. The modern Chechen republic is a peaceful and budding territory. The end of the counterterrorist operation will spur on economic growth in the republic,\" he told the Russian news agency Interfax.However, the decision raises troubling questions about the growing autonomy enjoyed by Kadyrov, who inherited the job after his father, Akhmad, then Chechnya's president, was killed in 2004. After winning the second Chechen war in 2000, Putin entrusted the republic to Akhmad Kadyrov, a moderate former separatist.In return for abandoning their struggle for independence, Akhmad Kadyrov and other ex-separatists were granted sweeping powers and autonomy denied to other Russian republics. Moscow also agreed to turn a blind eye to human rights abuses. The policy appeared to work. Chechnya's shell-ridden capital, Grozny, was transformed.But some inside the Kremlin have questioned whether Putin's policy of entrusting power to Chechens - known as \"Chechenisation\" - has gone too far. Kadyrov has been repeatedly accused of murdering his enemies, including the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a critic who described him as a \"coward armed to the teeth\". He denies involvement in her death.In January, a Chechen exile, Umar Israilov, who had accused Kadryov of torturing him was shot dead in a street in Vienna. And last month, Sulim Yamadayev, a former Chechen rebel commander who fell out with Kadyrov, was shot dead in Dubai. Police in the United Arab Emirates accused Kadyrov's cousin and heir apparent, Adam Delimkhanov, of ordering the assassination.Russian newspapers today suggested that some inside the Russian government now believe Kadyrov has grown far too powerful, but have little idea how to keep control of him. One analyst said Chechnya now enjoys the kind of autonomy that its separatist leaders in the 1990s had failed to achieve, while remaining a part of the Russian Federation.\"It would be difficult to describe Chechnya as peaceful. But Kadyrov has achieved 'stability' in the Russian and Chechen definition of the word,\" Sergei Markedonov, of Moscow's Institute for Political and Military Studies, wrote in theMoscow Times.\"Nonetheless this stability has come at a very high price. The flip side is that Chechnya's internal political issues are largely resolved without Russia and with minimal adherence to federal laws,\" he added. \"In this sense, a new type of separatism has won out in Chechnya.\"Russia's national anti-terrorist committee today said the end of the counterterrorism operation was a chance for Chechnya to return to normal. \"This decision aims to create conditions to further normalise the situation in the region, to restore and develop its economic and social infrastructure,\" it declared.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia ends anti-terrorism operations in Chechnya"},{"date": "2009-04-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Bill Clinton hugged Boris Yeltsin and it ended in the collapse of the rouble and a war in Chechnya. George Bush looked deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes and they parted company trading missile threats amid a war in Georgia. Barack Obama pressed the reset button with Dmitry Medvedev yesterday and produced a four-page shopping list of subjects about which they would continue to talk - chief among them the intention to cut nuclear arsenals by a third. Whatever today brings with the G20, particularly after the public splits between France and Germany, the US president's first international foray has already achieved results. The cold warriors, who say the west should stand up to Russia rather than engage with it, predict that the relationship between Mr Obama and Mr Medvedev will also end in tears. But there is a self-fulfilling quality to the notion that Russia should only be allowed to join our game when it plays by our rules.Mr Obama has seen a chance to create a virtuous circle. By offering to go slow on missile defence, he could generate Russian pressure on Iran to abandon its attempts to build a nuclear bomb. Russia is key to persuading Iran to stay within the bounds of a civilian nuclear programme, because it is helping Tehran build one. The abandonment of a covert Iranian plan to build the bomb would obviate the need for a missile defence battery close to Russia's border. Deep differences remain over both the missile defence programme and Georgia. Mr Obama said he had no interest in papering over the cracks. But his is more than just a change in tone. The real change is that America has decided to stop making progress on bigger fronts - strategic nuclear arsenals, non-proliferation, military transit routes to Afghanistan - hostage to problems on lesser ones. This could be more fruitful than confronting Russia for two reasons. Russia is no longer a rival superpower, but it is the world's second largest nuclear power. The new dialogue re-establishes a partnership which existed during Mikhail Gorbachev's era, but which disappeared during the Clinton and Bush years. Agreeing to cuts in nuclear arsenals is well within Russia's comfort zone, although it will be more difficult to achieve now that its conventional forces are so much weaker. Second, with a strengthened bilateral relationship, America will be less inclined than it was to see Russia through the distorting prism of former Soviet satellite states. Both Ukraine and Georgia have got their own complex political problems, irrespective of Russia. Their instability is not solely down to the machiavellian manoeuvring of Moscow. Of course, Russia today is less confident than it was only six months ago. Its once-booming economy has screeched to a halt. December saw a double-digit percentage fall in its industrial output. The cranes stopped swinging in Moscow and unemployment is spiralling, despite the practice of companies reducing salaries rather than labour. Tolyatti, the home of the Russian car industry, is in an even worse state than Detroit, and there are demonstrations against Vladimir Putin, the man most Russians venerate. This is no different to what is happening in the UK, except that in Russia inflation is also booming and private debt is out of control. So a poorer Russia could make for a less assertive one.There are bound to be setbacks. Competing visions of national interest, competing gas pipelines and the natural tendency of Russia's neighbours to look west for support will continue to create tensions. A bilateral relationship between Russia and America is easier to achieve than one between Russia and the European Union, which will become more dependent, not less, on Russian gas. But for all this, the path on which two presidents embarked yesterday is the right one - the only one that can ensure Russia's true place as a regional power spanning both Europe and Asia.", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Easing the chill"},{"date": "2009-06-30T15:16:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is not China. And so far there has been no attempt by the Kremlin to crack down on the web, which is the last remaining source of free information for ordinary Russians in an otherwise controlled media landscape.The authorities keep an iron grip on television, ensure that most newspapers toe a pro-government line, and keep critics off the airwaves.Recently, however, there are signs that the Russian government is reconsidering its laissez-faire attitude towards the internet, especially in the wake of Iran's web-driven \"green revolution\".Several Russian bloggers who have posted critical articles have found themselves charged with extremism. One is in jail. Another was arrested after comparing Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin to a penis.The Kremlin also uses other darker strategies for getting its PR message out, employing dozens of young, patriotic bloggers to flood chatrooms with a pro-Kremlin message, and to attack its enemies.Writing in last week's Moscow Times, the economist Yevgeny Gontmakher revealed how he came under \"massive attack\" from government bloggers after criticising Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue.He concluded: \"The modern Russian propaganda machine permeates nearly every major media outlet and even extends to the blogosphere.\" As well as the Russian language blogosphere, bloggers are also active in the western press, including the Guardian.Overall the picture is fairly dismal. \"Today's Russia is an authoritarian state where a corrupt and illiberal ruling elite maintains its power through media manipulation and the subversion of the democratic process,\" the US-funded watchdog Freedom House said in a report this month.Still, the situation in Russia is better than in former Soviet central Asia. According to Oleg Panfilov, director of Moscow's Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations, former Soviet countries can be divided into three categories.The first includes Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia and probably Azerbaijan, where the internet is absolutely free. The next includes Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, where the web is largely or partly free. In the last category are Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, Central Asia's most repressive, and generally paranoid, republics. Here, there is severe censorship. In Uzbekistan even the BBC's website is banned, although you can watch BBC World TV in upmarket Tashkent hotels.The country's secret police maintain a vigilant watch on net use, and have arrested users in internet cafes. There are ominous signs that more countries across the region are beginning to follow the Uzbek example.Journalists, human rights groups and the Organisation for Security and Co-Operation in Europe (OSCE) have all decried recent proposals by Kazakhstan to introduce a new law on the internet. Under the law the government will be able to regulate forums, chats, blogs, and even online shops. Eight months ago Kazakhstan banned LiveJournal, the most popular social networking website among Russian-speakers, as well as a dozen opposition sites.The restrictions have spilled over into neighbouring Kyrgyzstan, which uses the same web servers. Enterprising Kazakhs are getting round these restrictions by using proxies, but the overall picture is not an encouraging one.", "tags": ["Internet", "Censorship", "Russia", "Blogging", "World news", "Technology", "Europe"], "title": "Internet censorship: Kremlin may tighten up on web use in Russia"},{"date": "2009-04-16T16:45:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "1992 Chechnya declares independence from Russia a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.1994 Russian troops invade Chechnya to crush the independence movement. The war, which kills up to 100,000 people, starts in December and lasts 20 months.1995 Chechen rebels hold hostages at a hospital in Budennovsk, southern Russia. More than are 100 killed in a Russian commando operation.1996 The Chechen president, Dzhokhar Dudayev, is killed in a Russian missile attack and Zemlikhan Yandarbiyev succeeds him. Rebels launch a successful attack on Grozny. The rebel leader Aslan Maskhadov signs a ceasefire with Moscow and Russian troops begin to withdraw.1997 Russia recognises Maskhadov's government and the two leaders sign a peace treaty, although the problem of Chechnya independence is still unresolved.1998 Maskhadov imposes a state of emergency amid continued unrest.1999 Maskhadov declares that sharia law will be phased in over three years. Suspected Chechen separatists carry out a series of terror attacks in Russia, killing more than 300 people. In response, the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sends Russian troops back into Chechnya. Troops fight on the Chechnya-Dagestan border and Chechen rebels invade Dagestan to try to create an Islamic state.2000 Russian troops capture the captial, Grozny, and Putin declares direct rule from Moscow. He appoints a former cleric, Akhmad Kadyrov, as head of its administration in Chechnya.2001 There are reports of widespread human rights violations in Chechnya at the hands of Russian troops, fuelled by the discovery of a mass grave filled with mutilated bodies.2002 Chechen rebels storm a Moscow theatre holding 700 people hostage for three days. All 50 rebels and 120 hostages are killed when Russian forces gas the building. In December a suicide bomb attack destroys the Grozny headquarters of Chechnya's Moscow-backed government.2003 Suicide attacks continue. Akhmad Kadyrov is elected Chechen president.2004 Kadyrov, widely regarded as a Russian puppet, is killed in a bombing. In September nearly 400 people \u2013 hundreds of them children \u2013 are killed during a siege at a school in Beslan, North Ossetia. Putin blames international terrorists with links to Chechen separatist fighters.2005 In February the separatist leader Aslan Maskhadov calls a ceasefire and urges the Russian authorities to agree to peace talks. In March Russian forces say Maskhadov has been killed in a special operation in Chechnya. In May Maskhadov's successor, Abdul-Khalim Saydullayev, signals an end to peace talks with Moscow.2006: Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former Chechen leader Akhmad Kadyrov, becomes Chechen prime minister.2009: After two wars and a decade of strict security, Russia ends its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, marking the end of the Kremlin's war and enhancing the power of the president, Ramzan Kadyrov.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Chechnya and Russia: timeline"},{"date": "2009-05-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is planning a fleet of floating and submersible nuclear power stations to exploit Arctic oil and gas reserves, causing widespread alarm among environmentalists.A prototype floating nuclear power station being constructed at the SevMash shipyard in Severodvinsk is due to be completed next year. Agreement to build a further four was reached between the Russian state nuclear corporation, Rosatom, and the northern Siberian republic of Yakutiya in February. The 70-megawatt plants, each of which would consist of two reactors on board giant steel platforms, would provide power to Gazprom, the oil firm which is also Russia's biggest company. It would allow Gazprom to power drills needed to exploit some of the remotest oil and gas fields in the world in the Barents and Kara seas. The self-propelled vessels would store their own waste and fuel and would need to be serviced only once every 12 to 14 years. In addition, designers are known to have developed submarine nuclear-powered drilling rigs that could allow eight wells to be drilled at a time. Bellona, a leading Scandinavian environmental watchdog group, yesterday condemned the idea of using nuclear power to open the Arctic to oil, gas and mineral production. \"It is highly risky. The risk of a nuclear accident on a floating power plant is increased. The plants' potential impact on the fragile Arctic environment through emissions of radioactivity and heat remains a major concern. If there is an accident, it would be impossible to handle,\" said Igor Kudrik, a spokesman.Environmentalists also fear that if additional radioactive waste is produced, it will be dumped into the sea. Russia has a long record of polluting the Arctic with radioactive waste. Countries including Britain have had to offer Russia billions of dollars to decommission more than 160 nuclear submarines, but at least 12 nuclear reactors are known to have been dumped, along with more than 5,000 containers of solid and liquid nuclear waste, on the northern coast and on the island of Novaya Zemlya.The US Geological Survey believes the Arctic holds up to 25% of the world's undiscovered oil and gas reserves, leading some experts to call the region the next Saudi Arabia. But sea ice, strong winds and temperatures that can dip to below -50C have made them technologically impossible to exploit. Russia, Norway, Denmark, Canada and the US have all claimed large areas of the Arctic in the past five years. Russian scientists used a mini-submarine to plant a flag below the North Pole in 2007 and have claimed that a nearby underwater ridge is part of its continental shelf.Last week, ministers from many Arctic countries heard scientists and former US vice-president and Nobel prize winner Al Gore say that the Arctic could be free of ice in the summer within five years, with drastic consequences for the world's climate and human health. But many countries bordering the Arctic see climate change as the chance to exploit areas that were once inaccessible and to open trade routes between the Pacific and Atlantic. According to a new report by the Arctic Council, an intergovernmental forum, Russia is considering other nuclear plants for power-hungry settlements. \"The locations that have been discussed include 33 towns in the Russian far north and far east. Such plants could be also used to supply energy for oil and gas extraction,\" says the report by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme.", "tags": ["Russia", "Arctic", "Nuclear power", "Pollution", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Gas", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia to build floating Arctic nuclear power stations"},{"date": "2009-04-16T13:08:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today agreed to end its counterterrorist operations in Chechnya, in a move that signals the formal end of the Kremlin's war in the republic and enhances the power of Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov.Russia's national anti-terrorist committee said military restrictions in force in Chechnya would be abolished from today. Moscow has maintained a strict security regime for a decade in Chechnya, the scene of two wars against separatist rebels.Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, sent troops into Chechnya in 1999. His aim was to win back the region, which had enjoyed de-facto independence since the first Chechen war in 1994-1996. The security regime included arbitrary arrests, roadblocks, curfews and restrictions on journalists.This morning Kadyrov, a close ally of Putin, welcomed the decision to end anti-terrorist operations. \"We are extremely satisfied. The modern Chechen republic is a peaceful and budding territory. The end of the counterterrorist operation will spur on economic growth in the republic,\" he told the Russian news agency Interfax.However, the decision raises troubling questions about the growing autonomy enjoyed by Kadyrov, who inherited the job after his father, Akhmad, then Chechnya's president, was killed in 2004. After winning the second Chechen war in 2000, Putin entrusted the republic to Akhmad Kadyrov, a moderate former separatist.In return for abandoning their struggle for independence, Akhmad Kadyrov and other ex-separatists were granted sweeping powers and autonomy denied to other Russian republics. Moscow also agreed to turn a blind eye to human rights abuses. The policy appeared to work. Chechnya's shell-ridden capital, Grozny, was transformed.But some inside the Kremlin have questioned whether Putin's policy of entrusting power to Chechens - known as \"Chechenisation\" - has gone too far. Kadyrov has been repeatedly accused of murdering his enemies, including the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a critic who described him as a \"coward armed to the teeth\". He denies involvement in her death.In January, a Chechen exile, Umar Israilov, who had accused Kadryov of torturing him was shot dead in a street in Vienna. And last month, Sulim Yamadayev, a former Chechen rebel commander who fell out with Kadyrov, was shot dead in Dubai. Police in the United Arab Emirates accused Kadyrov's cousin and heir apparent, Adam Delimkhanov, of ordering the assassination.Russian newspapers today suggested that some inside the Russian government now believe Kadyrov has grown far too powerful, but have little idea how to keep control of him. One analyst said Chechnya now enjoys the kind of autonomy that its separatist leaders in the 1990s had failed to achieve, while remaining a part of the Russian Federation.\"It would be difficult to describe Chechnya as peaceful. But Kadyrov has achieved 'stability' in the Russian and Chechen definition of the word,\" Sergei Markedonov, of Moscow's Institute for Political and Military Studies, wrote in theMoscow Times.\"Nonetheless this stability has come at a very high price. The flip side is that Chechnya's internal political issues are largely resolved without Russia and with minimal adherence to federal laws,\" he added. \"In this sense, a new type of separatism has won out in Chechnya.\"Russia's national anti-terrorist committee today said the end of the counterterrorism operation was a chance for Chechnya to return to normal. \"This decision aims to create conditions to further normalise the situation in the region, to restore and develop its economic and social infrastructure,\" it declared.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia ends anti-terrorism operations in Chechnya"},{"date": "2009-04-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Bill Clinton hugged Boris Yeltsin and it ended in the collapse of the rouble and a war in Chechnya. George Bush looked deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes and they parted company trading missile threats amid a war in Georgia. Barack Obama pressed the reset button with Dmitry Medvedev yesterday and produced a four-page shopping list of subjects about which they would continue to talk - chief among them the intention to cut nuclear arsenals by a third. Whatever today brings with the G20, particularly after the public splits between France and Germany, the US president's first international foray has already achieved results. The cold warriors, who say the west should stand up to Russia rather than engage with it, predict that the relationship between Mr Obama and Mr Medvedev will also end in tears. But there is a self-fulfilling quality to the notion that Russia should only be allowed to join our game when it plays by our rules.Mr Obama has seen a chance to create a virtuous circle. By offering to go slow on missile defence, he could generate Russian pressure on Iran to abandon its attempts to build a nuclear bomb. Russia is key to persuading Iran to stay within the bounds of a civilian nuclear programme, because it is helping Tehran build one. The abandonment of a covert Iranian plan to build the bomb would obviate the need for a missile defence battery close to Russia's border. Deep differences remain over both the missile defence programme and Georgia. Mr Obama said he had no interest in papering over the cracks. But his is more than just a change in tone. The real change is that America has decided to stop making progress on bigger fronts - strategic nuclear arsenals, non-proliferation, military transit routes to Afghanistan - hostage to problems on lesser ones. This could be more fruitful than confronting Russia for two reasons. Russia is no longer a rival superpower, but it is the world's second largest nuclear power. The new dialogue re-establishes a partnership which existed during Mikhail Gorbachev's era, but which disappeared during the Clinton and Bush years. Agreeing to cuts in nuclear arsenals is well within Russia's comfort zone, although it will be more difficult to achieve now that its conventional forces are so much weaker. Second, with a strengthened bilateral relationship, America will be less inclined than it was to see Russia through the distorting prism of former Soviet satellite states. Both Ukraine and Georgia have got their own complex political problems, irrespective of Russia. Their instability is not solely down to the machiavellian manoeuvring of Moscow. Of course, Russia today is less confident than it was only six months ago. Its once-booming economy has screeched to a halt. December saw a double-digit percentage fall in its industrial output. The cranes stopped swinging in Moscow and unemployment is spiralling, despite the practice of companies reducing salaries rather than labour. Tolyatti, the home of the Russian car industry, is in an even worse state than Detroit, and there are demonstrations against Vladimir Putin, the man most Russians venerate. This is no different to what is happening in the UK, except that in Russia inflation is also booming and private debt is out of control. So a poorer Russia could make for a less assertive one.There are bound to be setbacks. Competing visions of national interest, competing gas pipelines and the natural tendency of Russia's neighbours to look west for support will continue to create tensions. A bilateral relationship between Russia and America is easier to achieve than one between Russia and the European Union, which will become more dependent, not less, on Russian gas. But for all this, the path on which two presidents embarked yesterday is the right one - the only one that can ensure Russia's true place as a regional power spanning both Europe and Asia.", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: Easing the chill"},{"date": "2009-06-30T15:16:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is not China. And so far there has been no attempt by the Kremlin to crack down on the web, which is the last remaining source of free information for ordinary Russians in an otherwise controlled media landscape.The authorities keep an iron grip on television, ensure that most newspapers toe a pro-government line, and keep critics off the airwaves.Recently, however, there are signs that the Russian government is reconsidering its laissez-faire attitude towards the internet, especially in the wake of Iran's web-driven \"green revolution\".Several Russian bloggers who have posted critical articles have found themselves charged with extremism. One is in jail. Another was arrested after comparing Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin to a penis.The Kremlin also uses other darker strategies for getting its PR message out, employing dozens of young, patriotic bloggers to flood chatrooms with a pro-Kremlin message, and to attack its enemies.Writing in last week's Moscow Times, the economist Yevgeny Gontmakher revealed how he came under \"massive attack\" from government bloggers after criticising Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue.He concluded: \"The modern Russian propaganda machine permeates nearly every major media outlet and even extends to the blogosphere.\" As well as the Russian language blogosphere, bloggers are also active in the western press, including the Guardian.Overall the picture is fairly dismal. \"Today's Russia is an authoritarian state where a corrupt and illiberal ruling elite maintains its power through media manipulation and the subversion of the democratic process,\" the US-funded watchdog Freedom House said in a report this month.Still, the situation in Russia is better than in former Soviet central Asia. According to Oleg Panfilov, director of Moscow's Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations, former Soviet countries can be divided into three categories.The first includes Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia and probably Azerbaijan, where the internet is absolutely free. The next includes Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan, where the web is largely or partly free. In the last category are Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, Central Asia's most repressive, and generally paranoid, republics. Here, there is severe censorship. In Uzbekistan even the BBC's website is banned, although you can watch BBC World TV in upmarket Tashkent hotels.The country's secret police maintain a vigilant watch on net use, and have arrested users in internet cafes. There are ominous signs that more countries across the region are beginning to follow the Uzbek example.Journalists, human rights groups and the Organisation for Security and Co-Operation in Europe (OSCE) have all decried recent proposals by Kazakhstan to introduce a new law on the internet. Under the law the government will be able to regulate forums, chats, blogs, and even online shops. Eight months ago Kazakhstan banned LiveJournal, the most popular social networking website among Russian-speakers, as well as a dozen opposition sites.The restrictions have spilled over into neighbouring Kyrgyzstan, which uses the same web servers. Enterprising Kazakhs are getting round these restrictions by using proxies, but the overall picture is not an encouraging one.", "tags": ["Internet", "Censorship", "Russia", "Blogging", "World news", "Technology", "Europe"], "title": "Internet censorship: Kremlin may tighten up on web use in Russia"},{"date": "2009-06-30T12:02:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It probably seemed a good idea at the time. But Russia's attempt to create a joint gas venture with Nigeria is set to become one of the classic branding disasters of all time \u2011 after the new company was named Nigaz.The venture was agreed last week during a four-day trip by Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev to Africa. The deal between Russia's Gazprom and Nigeria's state oil company was supposed to show off the Kremlin's growing interest in Africa's energy reserves.Instead, the venture is now likely to be remembered for all the wrong reasons \u2011 as a memorable PR blunder, worse than Chevrolet's Nova, which failed to sell in South America because it translates as \"doesn't go\" in Spanish.Alert users of Twitter first highlighted the unfortunate English connotations of Nigaz, which appears to have eluded Medevedev's Russian-speaking delegation.Writing on Monday, shunty 75 observed: \"Nigaz is the name for the new Gazprom Nigeria venture. They need a new PR outfit. NO WAY!! Haha!!\" Other twitterers also derided the name.An article in Brand Republic pointed out the obvious: that the name has \"rather different connotations\" for English-speakers.It recalled other international branding mishaps including the Ford Pinto \u2011 which in Brazil means small penis \u2011 and the Pepsi slogan \"come alive with the Pepsi generation\". In Taiwan this rousing motto translated as \"Pepsi will bring your ancestors back from the dead\".It is unclear why nobody alerted Medevedev to the blunder. But one possible explanation is that the offending word is still widely used in Russia, and was even famously employed by the poet Vladimir Mayokovsky in the 1920s.The new company Nigaz plans to invest at least $2.5bn (\u00a31.5bn) in oil and gas exploration and aims to build refineries, pipelines and gas power stations across Nigeria.\"We have a chance to become major energy partners,\" Medvedev declared last week following a meeting with Nigeria's presient Umaru Yar'Adua in the capital Abuja.", "tags": ["World news", "Russia", "Nigeria", "Business", "Gas", "Technology", "Twitter", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Branding blunder gives Russia-Nigeria energy linkup a bad name"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-07-06T13:09:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "For much of the last two decades, at least as far as any American president was concerned, Russia and the post-Soviet space have been the Wild East, an exciting new petro-chemical rich frontier in which the natives were weak and disorganised, and the west was free to roam. The argument that Russians behaved the way they did because they could not get over the loss of their empire, somehow did not apply to the other side in all of this \u2013 those who claimed victory at the end of the cold war and continued to expand into the vacuum created by Russia's retreat. Because it was all done in the name of democracy and exercise of sovereignty, it did not exist.But it did to the Russians. Just beneath the touchy-feely atmospherics of Bill Clinton's patronising relationship with Boris Yeltsin, or the George Bush who peered deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes, lay a hard, unemotional calculation. If Russia kicked up about Kosovo, or Iraq, or missile defence, well so what? America would go ahead with it anyway. That attitude led to the creation of the most paranoid Russian leadership \u2013 at least in terms of how it evaluates the external threat that Nato poses \u2013 since Yuri Andropov.So Barack Obama is in Moscow today with a genuinely new message. He undoubtedly means it, but the big question is whether he can deliver it. The offer he makes of treating Russia as an equal partner has a genuinely better prospect of hitting fertile ground, than it does with the Muslim world, because it goes to the heart of the Russian nationalist narrative which says: what's good for the west must be bad for us.Turning that round will not be easy or swift. Take arms control. The two nations have between them 90% of the world's nuclear warheads but there the parity ends. There is no comparison between America's and Russia's conventional forces. One has the strongest,most transportable, best funded fighting force in the world, and the other has a collection of rusting ships, ageing bombers and tanks, a fraction of which are serviceable. There were 60,000 tanks ready to roll into western Europe at the height of the cold war, which was why Nato would have had to go nuclear if war broke out.In five years, there will be 2,000 Russian tanks. This means the roles are reversed: Russia's conventional forces are so weak in comparison to Nato's, that they now need the nuclear umbrella as a first line of defence.Of course, it is absurd to think in terms of a Nato attack on Russia. But when it comes to negotiating away the mutual threat, the number of ballistic missiles each side has is only the half of the problem. America's conventional forces are so overwhelming, that a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead could be mounted on virtually any platform anywhere in the world. They could be delivered from aircraft carriers, ships, even converted commercial aircraft. The US missile defence system, which will eventually be global, is an instrinsic part of the nuclear balance. There is every link between missiles and the ability to shoot them down in the early part of their trajectory. The Pentagon's determination to use space as a military platform is just as problematic.These are formidable technical problems to overcome, and the two sides have only until the end of the year to resolve them, when the current Start 1 treaty expires. What Obama can attempt to re-establish is a measure of mutual trust and a mechanism for regulating bilateral relations. Even if he succeeds, the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia and its deteriorating relationship with Ukraine will bubble away as permanent sources of conflict in the background. It will take years before Russia regulates its relationship with its poorer and weaker neighbours, and respects both their independence and their sovereignty. The only long-term answer is for Russia to be part of a pan-European security system, which would include Nato ,but over which it would not hold a veto. But that looks as far away now as the zero option of ridding the world of all nuclear warheads.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Can Obama deliver in Russia? | David Hearst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-07-06T13:09:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "For much of the last two decades, at least as far as any American president was concerned, Russia and the post-Soviet space have been the Wild East, an exciting new petro-chemical rich frontier in which the natives were weak and disorganised, and the west was free to roam. The argument that Russians behaved the way they did because they could not get over the loss of their empire, somehow did not apply to the other side in all of this \u2013 those who claimed victory at the end of the cold war and continued to expand into the vacuum created by Russia's retreat. Because it was all done in the name of democracy and exercise of sovereignty, it did not exist.But it did to the Russians. Just beneath the touchy-feely atmospherics of Bill Clinton's patronising relationship with Boris Yeltsin, or the George Bush who peered deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes, lay a hard, unemotional calculation. If Russia kicked up about Kosovo, or Iraq, or missile defence, well so what? America would go ahead with it anyway. That attitude led to the creation of the most paranoid Russian leadership \u2013 at least in terms of how it evaluates the external threat that Nato poses \u2013 since Yuri Andropov.So Barack Obama is in Moscow today with a genuinely new message. He undoubtedly means it, but the big question is whether he can deliver it. The offer he makes of treating Russia as an equal partner has a genuinely better prospect of hitting fertile ground, than it does with the Muslim world, because it goes to the heart of the Russian nationalist narrative which says: what's good for the west must be bad for us.Turning that round will not be easy or swift. Take arms control. The two nations have between them 90% of the world's nuclear warheads but there the parity ends. There is no comparison between America's and Russia's conventional forces. One has the strongest,most transportable, best funded fighting force in the world, and the other has a collection of rusting ships, ageing bombers and tanks, a fraction of which are serviceable. There were 60,000 tanks ready to roll into western Europe at the height of the cold war, which was why Nato would have had to go nuclear if war broke out.In five years, there will be 2,000 Russian tanks. This means the roles are reversed: Russia's conventional forces are so weak in comparison to Nato's, that they now need the nuclear umbrella as a first line of defence.Of course, it is absurd to think in terms of a Nato attack on Russia. But when it comes to negotiating away the mutual threat, the number of ballistic missiles each side has is only the half of the problem. America's conventional forces are so overwhelming, that a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead could be mounted on virtually any platform anywhere in the world. They could be delivered from aircraft carriers, ships, even converted commercial aircraft. The US missile defence system, which will eventually be global, is an instrinsic part of the nuclear balance. There is every link between missiles and the ability to shoot them down in the early part of their trajectory. The Pentagon's determination to use space as a military platform is just as problematic.These are formidable technical problems to overcome, and the two sides have only until the end of the year to resolve them, when the current Start 1 treaty expires. What Obama can attempt to re-establish is a measure of mutual trust and a mechanism for regulating bilateral relations. Even if he succeeds, the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia and its deteriorating relationship with Ukraine will bubble away as permanent sources of conflict in the background. It will take years before Russia regulates its relationship with its poorer and weaker neighbours, and respects both their independence and their sovereignty. The only long-term answer is for Russia to be part of a pan-European security system, which would include Nato ,but over which it would not hold a veto. But that looks as far away now as the zero option of ridding the world of all nuclear warheads.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Can Obama deliver in Russia? | David Hearst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Iran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) \u2013 the UN's nuclear watchdog \u2013 in a letter that it is building a second uranium enrichment plant.At the G20 Pittsburgh summit, the US, France and the UK will accuse Tehran of building a secret nuclear weapons capability and threaten further UN sanctions. This will ratchet up tensions and trigger renewed speculation that Israel might launch a pre-emptive strike.So far, US-led efforts to increase pressure on Iran have failed in large part because of Russia's hostile stance in the UN security council. During Vladimir Putin's presidency (2000-08), Russia repeatedly opposed more punitive measures against Iran. Fuelled by a combination of anti-Americanism and renewed geopolitical ambition, Moscow insisted that Tehran had a sovereign right to build nuclear power stations \u2013 with Russian technological support.But now that the Obama administration is moving its anti-ballistic missile shield from land-based installations in eastern Europe to mobile vehicles closer to Iran, the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, declared on Wednesday at the UN in New York that \"sanctions are seldom productive but they are sometimes inevitable\".With the \"reset\" of US-Russian relations, the Kremlin has performed a spectacular \"rethink\" of its Iran policy. The \"secret\" Moscow visit by Binyamin Netanyahu on 7 September seemed to reassure the Russian leadership that Israel would not launch unilateral pre-emptive strikes against suspected Iranian nuclear installations \u2013 on the condition that Moscow promise not to equip Iran with the advanced S-300 system, an offensive missile capability that could deliver nuclear warheads.If Russia drops its opposition to further sanctions, China is likely to agree or at least to abstain because Beijing's policy is to avoid isolation within the UN security council \u2013 except to block international interference in Chinese interests in Sudan or foreign meddling in \"internal\" issues such as Taiwan and Tibet.Critics will be correct to argue that more UN sanctions against Tehran's nuclear activities are hypocritical, as they would perpetuate the inequality between non-nuclear states deemed too dangerous to have the bomb and nuclear states that are \"not all stable or democratic\", as Simon Jenkins has rightly remarked. Even Obama's US has not heeded President Hu's call for all nuclear-weapon countries to adopt China's \"no first use\" policy, providing Iran and North Korea with reasons to fear a US pre-emptive strike. Tehran and Pyongyang won't so quickly forget the fate of Iraq.That's why so much depends on American and Russian commitments to reduce and eventually abandon their nuclear arsenals.US-led punitive measures also tend to be counter-productive, as they turn countries into pariah states and embolden repressive regimes. Here Russia has a key role to play. Moscow is better placed than the west to help Iran develop its domestic economy by modernising the oil and gas sectors.Without renewed Russian investment in Iran's largely obsolete energy industry, the oil-funded Mullah theocracy will struggle to hold on to power in the face of growing resistance \u2013 especially since the fraudulent re-election of President Ahmadinejad.Together with Qatar, Russia and Iran (who together account for more than 60% of global natural gas reserves) are establishing a \"gas troika\" focusing on liquefied natural gas (LNG) that could lead to the biggest state-sponsored joint venture in the global energy market.Along with new supply routes to emerging markets in Asia, LNG could produce a decoupling of the gas and oil price. With the oil price set to fall again once the current commodity bubble bursts (which it will when expansionary measures like \"quantitative easing\" are scaled back), the gas price would not be adversely affected, making investment in the gas sector more lucrative yet.Moreover, the nascent global recovery, especially in China and other Asian countries, will increase demand for cleaner energy like natural gas. That is why the proposed \"gas troika\" is building a new pipeline system linking Iran to Qatar and ultimately to Asia. The plan is to pump gas from Iran's South Pars deposit, the world's largest with estimated reserves of about 14 trillion cubic metres, via a pipeline on the Persian Gulf floor to a LNG plant in Qatar's Ras Laffan province (about 100 miles from the deposit).Qatar has signed a contract with China to supply 7m metric tons of LNG per year. South Korea's rapidly increasing consumption of liquefied gas creates another significant source of demand for gas produced by the troika, estimated to be worth $4bn.Involving Qatar, which hosts a major US military basis, has the additional advantage of easing tensions between Iran and the Gulf states, which are increasingly nervous about Tehran's hardline stance. On this key issue and on the Israel-Palestine peace process, the Kremlin has now the unique chance to act as an honest broker.In short, Moscow can combine the stick of economic and political sanctions against the ruling regime with the carrot of technological and financial support for developing Iran's energy sector. None of this will guarantee Tehran's compliance with international demands to disclose all its nuclear-related activities. But Russian leverage can make an important difference in defusing the growing tensions that threaten the entire Middle East.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia could sway Iran's nuclear ambitions | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-07-06T13:09:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "For much of the last two decades, at least as far as any American president was concerned, Russia and the post-Soviet space have been the Wild East, an exciting new petro-chemical rich frontier in which the natives were weak and disorganised, and the west was free to roam. The argument that Russians behaved the way they did because they could not get over the loss of their empire, somehow did not apply to the other side in all of this \u2013 those who claimed victory at the end of the cold war and continued to expand into the vacuum created by Russia's retreat. Because it was all done in the name of democracy and exercise of sovereignty, it did not exist.But it did to the Russians. Just beneath the touchy-feely atmospherics of Bill Clinton's patronising relationship with Boris Yeltsin, or the George Bush who peered deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes, lay a hard, unemotional calculation. If Russia kicked up about Kosovo, or Iraq, or missile defence, well so what? America would go ahead with it anyway. That attitude led to the creation of the most paranoid Russian leadership \u2013 at least in terms of how it evaluates the external threat that Nato poses \u2013 since Yuri Andropov.So Barack Obama is in Moscow today with a genuinely new message. He undoubtedly means it, but the big question is whether he can deliver it. The offer he makes of treating Russia as an equal partner has a genuinely better prospect of hitting fertile ground, than it does with the Muslim world, because it goes to the heart of the Russian nationalist narrative which says: what's good for the west must be bad for us.Turning that round will not be easy or swift. Take arms control. The two nations have between them 90% of the world's nuclear warheads but there the parity ends. There is no comparison between America's and Russia's conventional forces. One has the strongest,most transportable, best funded fighting force in the world, and the other has a collection of rusting ships, ageing bombers and tanks, a fraction of which are serviceable. There were 60,000 tanks ready to roll into western Europe at the height of the cold war, which was why Nato would have had to go nuclear if war broke out.In five years, there will be 2,000 Russian tanks. This means the roles are reversed: Russia's conventional forces are so weak in comparison to Nato's, that they now need the nuclear umbrella as a first line of defence.Of course, it is absurd to think in terms of a Nato attack on Russia. But when it comes to negotiating away the mutual threat, the number of ballistic missiles each side has is only the half of the problem. America's conventional forces are so overwhelming, that a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead could be mounted on virtually any platform anywhere in the world. They could be delivered from aircraft carriers, ships, even converted commercial aircraft. The US missile defence system, which will eventually be global, is an instrinsic part of the nuclear balance. There is every link between missiles and the ability to shoot them down in the early part of their trajectory. The Pentagon's determination to use space as a military platform is just as problematic.These are formidable technical problems to overcome, and the two sides have only until the end of the year to resolve them, when the current Start 1 treaty expires. What Obama can attempt to re-establish is a measure of mutual trust and a mechanism for regulating bilateral relations. Even if he succeeds, the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia and its deteriorating relationship with Ukraine will bubble away as permanent sources of conflict in the background. It will take years before Russia regulates its relationship with its poorer and weaker neighbours, and respects both their independence and their sovereignty. The only long-term answer is for Russia to be part of a pan-European security system, which would include Nato ,but over which it would not hold a veto. But that looks as far away now as the zero option of ridding the world of all nuclear warheads.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Can Obama deliver in Russia? | David Hearst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Iran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) \u2013 the UN's nuclear watchdog \u2013 in a letter that it is building a second uranium enrichment plant.At the G20 Pittsburgh summit, the US, France and the UK will accuse Tehran of building a secret nuclear weapons capability and threaten further UN sanctions. This will ratchet up tensions and trigger renewed speculation that Israel might launch a pre-emptive strike.So far, US-led efforts to increase pressure on Iran have failed in large part because of Russia's hostile stance in the UN security council. During Vladimir Putin's presidency (2000-08), Russia repeatedly opposed more punitive measures against Iran. Fuelled by a combination of anti-Americanism and renewed geopolitical ambition, Moscow insisted that Tehran had a sovereign right to build nuclear power stations \u2013 with Russian technological support.But now that the Obama administration is moving its anti-ballistic missile shield from land-based installations in eastern Europe to mobile vehicles closer to Iran, the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, declared on Wednesday at the UN in New York that \"sanctions are seldom productive but they are sometimes inevitable\".With the \"reset\" of US-Russian relations, the Kremlin has performed a spectacular \"rethink\" of its Iran policy. The \"secret\" Moscow visit by Binyamin Netanyahu on 7 September seemed to reassure the Russian leadership that Israel would not launch unilateral pre-emptive strikes against suspected Iranian nuclear installations \u2013 on the condition that Moscow promise not to equip Iran with the advanced S-300 system, an offensive missile capability that could deliver nuclear warheads.If Russia drops its opposition to further sanctions, China is likely to agree or at least to abstain because Beijing's policy is to avoid isolation within the UN security council \u2013 except to block international interference in Chinese interests in Sudan or foreign meddling in \"internal\" issues such as Taiwan and Tibet.Critics will be correct to argue that more UN sanctions against Tehran's nuclear activities are hypocritical, as they would perpetuate the inequality between non-nuclear states deemed too dangerous to have the bomb and nuclear states that are \"not all stable or democratic\", as Simon Jenkins has rightly remarked. Even Obama's US has not heeded President Hu's call for all nuclear-weapon countries to adopt China's \"no first use\" policy, providing Iran and North Korea with reasons to fear a US pre-emptive strike. Tehran and Pyongyang won't so quickly forget the fate of Iraq.That's why so much depends on American and Russian commitments to reduce and eventually abandon their nuclear arsenals.US-led punitive measures also tend to be counter-productive, as they turn countries into pariah states and embolden repressive regimes. Here Russia has a key role to play. Moscow is better placed than the west to help Iran develop its domestic economy by modernising the oil and gas sectors.Without renewed Russian investment in Iran's largely obsolete energy industry, the oil-funded Mullah theocracy will struggle to hold on to power in the face of growing resistance \u2013 especially since the fraudulent re-election of President Ahmadinejad.Together with Qatar, Russia and Iran (who together account for more than 60% of global natural gas reserves) are establishing a \"gas troika\" focusing on liquefied natural gas (LNG) that could lead to the biggest state-sponsored joint venture in the global energy market.Along with new supply routes to emerging markets in Asia, LNG could produce a decoupling of the gas and oil price. With the oil price set to fall again once the current commodity bubble bursts (which it will when expansionary measures like \"quantitative easing\" are scaled back), the gas price would not be adversely affected, making investment in the gas sector more lucrative yet.Moreover, the nascent global recovery, especially in China and other Asian countries, will increase demand for cleaner energy like natural gas. That is why the proposed \"gas troika\" is building a new pipeline system linking Iran to Qatar and ultimately to Asia. The plan is to pump gas from Iran's South Pars deposit, the world's largest with estimated reserves of about 14 trillion cubic metres, via a pipeline on the Persian Gulf floor to a LNG plant in Qatar's Ras Laffan province (about 100 miles from the deposit).Qatar has signed a contract with China to supply 7m metric tons of LNG per year. South Korea's rapidly increasing consumption of liquefied gas creates another significant source of demand for gas produced by the troika, estimated to be worth $4bn.Involving Qatar, which hosts a major US military basis, has the additional advantage of easing tensions between Iran and the Gulf states, which are increasingly nervous about Tehran's hardline stance. On this key issue and on the Israel-Palestine peace process, the Kremlin has now the unique chance to act as an honest broker.In short, Moscow can combine the stick of economic and political sanctions against the ruling regime with the carrot of technological and financial support for developing Iran's energy sector. None of this will guarantee Tehran's compliance with international demands to disclose all its nuclear-related activities. But Russian leverage can make an important difference in defusing the growing tensions that threaten the entire Middle East.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia could sway Iran's nuclear ambitions | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-08-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was an unashamed display of military force, involving tanks, fighter jets and more than 3,000 soldiers. Last week China and Russia held their biggest joint military exercises ever - their battalions streaking across the plateaus and shimmering plains of Shenyang province.The exercises come as Moscow and Beijing prepare to celebrate an important moment in history: 60 years of diplomatic relations. After long periods of frigidity during the cold war, the two countries now claim to be enjoying an unprecedented strategic partnership.But the military manoeuvres - named Peace Operation 2009 - were not just about showing off, unleashing rockets at imaginary terrorist enemies or threatening the US. Instead their aim was to send an unambiguous message to the internal Muslim populations of China and Russia: no dissent will be tolerated.Both countries are now facing simmering Muslim uprisings. In China's case, this comes from Uighurs whose revolt in the north-west province of Xinjiang this summer has been brutally suppressed. Russia, meanwhile, is facing an insurgency of its own in the north Caucasus republics of Ingushetia, Chechnya and Dagestan.But while China and Russia have much in common, including a mutual fear of separatism and Islamic radicalism, there are also signal differences. Despite last week's exercises, and a visit to Russia by Hu Jintao, the Chinese president, in June, politicians in Moscow harbour a deep-seated fear of China - in particular, of Chinese encroachment.Russian TV recently claimed that Beijing has drawn up a secret plan. According to this top-secret blueprint, China is determined to grab back Russia's remote, but vast, far east region. China's strategy includes persuading migrants to settle in Russia, marry local women and steal or co-opt local businesses.Russia's far east has always been the most strategically vulnerable part of Moscow's fissiparous imperium, in what is the world's biggest country. Some 6,100km (3,800 miles) and an eight-hour flight from Moscow, the far east is home to just 6.5 million Russian citizens. Next door, across the Amur river in north-eastern China, there are 107 million Chinese. Given this demographic imbalance, there is a primordial fear in the Russian imagination that China will eventually try to steal back the Europe-sized far east of Russia - a region rich in mineral resources, trees, coal and fish. The salmon alone are an attractive target. A quarter of the world's Pacific salmon spawn in the volcanic Kamchatka peninsula. According to the Russian TV scenario, Beijing is furtively plotting to undo the Russian colonisation of the Pacific coastal region, started in the 18th century by tsarist-era adventurers. The area's original inhabitants were Chinese. These early nomads eked out a meagre living while dodging the tigers that still haunt the Sikhote-Alin mountains.In reality, the relationship is far more fascinating than the baseless fears of Russia's nationalists. Over the past decade the number of Chinese migrants working in Russia's far east has actually fallen. In Moscow, the authorities have recently shut down the capital's enormous Cherkizovsky market, turfing thousands of Chinese out of a job. The huge bazaar was home to Chinese traders selling billions of dollars-worth of grey-sector goods. (According to China's Xinhua agency, losses from Wenzhou in Zhejiang province alone amount to more than $800m, after Russian police confiscated their stocks.) Some 150 Chinese workers have been deported since the market was closed on 29 June.Most experts believe China's own strategic goals do not include Russia's far east, or primitive territorial expansion. Instead Beijing's priorities lie elsewhere. They include development, reunification with Taiwan and internal stability, which experts suggest is more of a priority than ever following last month's ethnic riots against Han Chinese in Xinjiang.According to Dr Bobo Lo, a lecturer on Chinese-Russian relations at the Centre for European Reform, Beijing's real challenge to Moscow is rather different. He argues that the rise of China will lead to the \"steady marginalisation of Russia from regional and global decision-making\". The Chinese do not want to invade Russia militarily because, he points out, they would lose.Any loss of influence would alarm the Kremlin, which still sees itself as a major global power. Over the past nine years, under president and then prime minister Vladimir Putin, Russia has worked hard to recover its superpower status. However, few outside Moscow doubt that the main challenge to the United States's increasingly wobbly global and economic hegemony comes not from Putin's Moscow but Hu's Beijing.In the meantime, informal ties between China and Russia are blossoming. During the summer, after the ice encrusting the Amur river melts, Russian tourists are now travelling to China from the attractive Russian town of Khabarovsk. Their destination is the gleaming Chinese town of Fuyuan, reached by whizzy hydrofoil.Yesterday, cruising down the Amur, Captain Alexander Udenka pointed out to the Observer the border between China and Russia. On the river's right bank is China and a series of low green mountains and Fuyuan's newly built high-rises. Out on the river, Chinese fishermen zip around in speedboats, looking for the giant but elusive Amur sturgeon.Over on the left bank, meanwhile, is Russia. Here there is no sign of human activity. The sandy bays are empty. There are not even any watchtowers - merely a shimmering green embankment of dense willows and oaks, as well as Manchurian nut trees and Japanese cherries - all apparently further evidence of far eastern Russia's lack of people.\"In 1969 China and Russia fought a war over one of these river islands,\" Udenka explains, sitting in his captain's cabin and steering in the middle of the river. \"It was a small war. Now there are good relations between Russia and China. We trust each other,\" he adds, in broken Chinese.A decade ago Fuyuan was little more than a village with a few pigs. Now it is a brash town, offering goods at less than half the price in Russia. During the season several hundred Russian tourists visit every day, staying on cheap two-day packages, and haggling with Chinese locals who have rapidly mastered the Russian language.Everything conceivable is on sale in Fuyuan - fur coats, computers, mobile telephones, socks and even sex toys. After trudging round the market for several hours, most Russians relax with a massage - \u00a310 for a one-hour session - or get their hair highlighted. Others tuck into a tasty lunch of silver carp caught from the Amur, or pork dumplings.\"I still haven't managed to get the hang of chopsticks,\" Igor, a 23-year-old Russian tourist confessed to the Observer. Igor showed off his new purchases - a black cowboy hat, a fake Armani jacket, Gillette Mach 3 razors and a bottle of aftershave with an English logo, \"Love Affairs\". Asked why he had decided to buy a cowboy hat, Igor replied: \"I got drunk last night.\" Local Russians can travel to Fuyuan without a visa. This suits Fuyuan's traders, many of whom have moved from elsewhere in China. \"I like Russians. They are pretty indiscriminate. They just grab everything and run,\" said Li Wing, 42, who owns a sex shop in Fuyuan. Fuyuan ends abruptly. Its shopping centre peters out at a decorative Chinese gate. From here, there is a stunning view of the Amur river and Russia. Up in the woods, among the pine trees, there is evidence of the environmental cost that new Chinese towns such as Fuyuan are wreaking: heaps of rubbish, plastic bags and a dead owl.The problem of what to do with the far east has long exercised Moscow's leadership. The Soviet Union offered generous subsidies to cajole workers and young couples to start a new life here. They got higher salaries, career opportunities, and flats. There were also cheap air fares back to European Russia. The incentives were needed given the region's harsh climate - scorching summers and freezing winters, with January temperatures regularly falling below -30C.However, after the demise of the Soviet Union this system collapsed. With a ticket to Moscow now costing \u00a3500 return, a new generation has grown up with weaker ties to the capital. Instead of visiting St Petersburg, local Russians are more likely to holiday in China - travelling by bus to the Chinese seaside resort of Dalian and other destinations in China's north east.Gradually, Asiatic Russians are getting to know their neighbours better. Farther down the Amur in the border town of Blagoveshchensk, Russian pensioners have even started buying up apartments on the Chinese side of the river. Other young Russians head west: since the early 1990s the Russian far east's population has plunged by 1.6 million. This exodus is a source of increasing worry for the Kremlin. On Friday Putin travelled to Khabarovsk to unveil a new pipeline stretching from the Russian island of Sakhalin to Khabarovsk and the far eastern port of Vladivostok. The pipeline will take gas to China, Japan and South Korea - part of an attempt to stimulate the region's economy.In June, during his trip to Russia, Hu attended a summit of the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, and held talks in Moscow with Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, which led to the signing of a massive oil deal. He also had tea with Putin. The deal reinforced China's growing economic influence in the region, and its emergence as a competitor with Russia for Central Asia's energy reserves.In Khabarovsk, meanwhile, few locals see much prospect of the far east breaking away from Moscow. Despite improved understanding between China and Russia, the cultures remain too different. (The Chinese see the Russians as western-centric.) In Khabarovsk, the last stop on the Trans-Siberian Railway before Vladivostok, nobody is talking about secessionism.\"I've had a few relationships with Russian girls. But I'll end up marrying a Chinese one,\" says Tsi Ke, 25, who has lived for the past decade in Khabarovsk. Tsi owns a thriving Chinese restaurant, where blonde Russian waitresses wear Chinese dresses. He adds: \"In China we believe a wife should stay at home a lot and be like a daughter to your own parents. For us, marriage isn't just between two people but between two families.\"A more pressing problem for the Kremlin is the growing estrangement between Russia's western and eastern halves. Resentment of Moscow and its far-away bureaucrats is rising. There have been grassroots protests in Khabarovsk and in Vladivostok after Moscow raised duties on second-hand Japanese cars late last year, killing off a major regional business. Anti-Kremlin protests are continuing.In May, Medvedev dropped into Khabarovsk for an EU-Russia summit. (The venue - 10 hours' flight from Brussels - was apparently chosen by Russia to punish the EU's pampered representatives, several of whom fell asleep during sessions).Medvedev flatteringly described the far east as his \"favourite part\" of Russia, and expressed sympathy with students too broke to travel to Moscow. This summer the Kremlin has introduced a scheme offering some discounted tickets to the under-23s.It remains to be seen whether the scheme will make much difference. In reality, though, successive governments in Moscow have done little to develop the far east - making the region susceptible to civic unrest and discontent. The region suffers from \"long-term neglect by Moscow\" and \"appalling corruption and misgovernment at regional level\", Bobo Lo says.Despite last week's show of unity during military manoeuvres, the relationship between Beijing and Moscow is no longer one of equals. Russia may see China as an important strategic counterweight to the US - with whom it is currently in conflict over a range of issues, including the planned US missile defence shield in central Europe.But the Chinese know that it is they, and not Putin's Russia, who are destined to become the world's newest superpower. And according to Bobo Lo, China is not interested in allowing strategic accommodation with Moscow to disrupt Beijing's more important partnership with Washington. \"Washington is still the world's only indispensable partner,\" he notes.\u2022 Throughout much of the cold war Beijing and Moscow were enemies. However, Stalin had encouraged and financed Mao Zedong's revolution, recognising his communist People's Republic in October 1949. The partnership survived Stalin's death and the early Khrushchev years.\u2022 In 1959 the two countries squabbled over which should lead the world communist movement, an ideological quarrel replicated in communist parties across Asia and Africa. Khrushchev's decision to back down during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis also needled Mao.\u2022 In March 1969 tensions exploded when Russia and China fought a brief war in Russia's far east over the disputed Damansky island (now known as Zhenbao), close to Khabarovsk.\u2022 Tensions continued in the 1970s and 1980s, especially after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, pictured above. D\u00e9tente only became possible after the Soviet Union's demise.\u2022 Over the past two decades relations between Beijing and the Russian Federation have improved, with booming trade, agreement on many international issues, and growing military co-operation. In 2004 Russia settled a long-running border dispute with China, handing over Tarabarov island in the Amur river, and half of another large island, Bolshoy Ussuriysky.\u2022 China's rise, however, is likely to place increasing strain on the relationship. Experts believe that, as China becomes a world superpower, Russia's influence will diminish - a fate the Kremlin is unlikely to accept.", "tags": ["Russia", "China", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Russia fears embrace of giant eastern neighbour, China"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-07-06T13:09:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "For much of the last two decades, at least as far as any American president was concerned, Russia and the post-Soviet space have been the Wild East, an exciting new petro-chemical rich frontier in which the natives were weak and disorganised, and the west was free to roam. The argument that Russians behaved the way they did because they could not get over the loss of their empire, somehow did not apply to the other side in all of this \u2013 those who claimed victory at the end of the cold war and continued to expand into the vacuum created by Russia's retreat. Because it was all done in the name of democracy and exercise of sovereignty, it did not exist.But it did to the Russians. Just beneath the touchy-feely atmospherics of Bill Clinton's patronising relationship with Boris Yeltsin, or the George Bush who peered deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes, lay a hard, unemotional calculation. If Russia kicked up about Kosovo, or Iraq, or missile defence, well so what? America would go ahead with it anyway. That attitude led to the creation of the most paranoid Russian leadership \u2013 at least in terms of how it evaluates the external threat that Nato poses \u2013 since Yuri Andropov.So Barack Obama is in Moscow today with a genuinely new message. He undoubtedly means it, but the big question is whether he can deliver it. The offer he makes of treating Russia as an equal partner has a genuinely better prospect of hitting fertile ground, than it does with the Muslim world, because it goes to the heart of the Russian nationalist narrative which says: what's good for the west must be bad for us.Turning that round will not be easy or swift. Take arms control. The two nations have between them 90% of the world's nuclear warheads but there the parity ends. There is no comparison between America's and Russia's conventional forces. One has the strongest,most transportable, best funded fighting force in the world, and the other has a collection of rusting ships, ageing bombers and tanks, a fraction of which are serviceable. There were 60,000 tanks ready to roll into western Europe at the height of the cold war, which was why Nato would have had to go nuclear if war broke out.In five years, there will be 2,000 Russian tanks. This means the roles are reversed: Russia's conventional forces are so weak in comparison to Nato's, that they now need the nuclear umbrella as a first line of defence.Of course, it is absurd to think in terms of a Nato attack on Russia. But when it comes to negotiating away the mutual threat, the number of ballistic missiles each side has is only the half of the problem. America's conventional forces are so overwhelming, that a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead could be mounted on virtually any platform anywhere in the world. They could be delivered from aircraft carriers, ships, even converted commercial aircraft. The US missile defence system, which will eventually be global, is an instrinsic part of the nuclear balance. There is every link between missiles and the ability to shoot them down in the early part of their trajectory. The Pentagon's determination to use space as a military platform is just as problematic.These are formidable technical problems to overcome, and the two sides have only until the end of the year to resolve them, when the current Start 1 treaty expires. What Obama can attempt to re-establish is a measure of mutual trust and a mechanism for regulating bilateral relations. Even if he succeeds, the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia and its deteriorating relationship with Ukraine will bubble away as permanent sources of conflict in the background. It will take years before Russia regulates its relationship with its poorer and weaker neighbours, and respects both their independence and their sovereignty. The only long-term answer is for Russia to be part of a pan-European security system, which would include Nato ,but over which it would not hold a veto. But that looks as far away now as the zero option of ridding the world of all nuclear warheads.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Can Obama deliver in Russia? | David Hearst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Iran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) \u2013 the UN's nuclear watchdog \u2013 in a letter that it is building a second uranium enrichment plant.At the G20 Pittsburgh summit, the US, France and the UK will accuse Tehran of building a secret nuclear weapons capability and threaten further UN sanctions. This will ratchet up tensions and trigger renewed speculation that Israel might launch a pre-emptive strike.So far, US-led efforts to increase pressure on Iran have failed in large part because of Russia's hostile stance in the UN security council. During Vladimir Putin's presidency (2000-08), Russia repeatedly opposed more punitive measures against Iran. Fuelled by a combination of anti-Americanism and renewed geopolitical ambition, Moscow insisted that Tehran had a sovereign right to build nuclear power stations \u2013 with Russian technological support.But now that the Obama administration is moving its anti-ballistic missile shield from land-based installations in eastern Europe to mobile vehicles closer to Iran, the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, declared on Wednesday at the UN in New York that \"sanctions are seldom productive but they are sometimes inevitable\".With the \"reset\" of US-Russian relations, the Kremlin has performed a spectacular \"rethink\" of its Iran policy. The \"secret\" Moscow visit by Binyamin Netanyahu on 7 September seemed to reassure the Russian leadership that Israel would not launch unilateral pre-emptive strikes against suspected Iranian nuclear installations \u2013 on the condition that Moscow promise not to equip Iran with the advanced S-300 system, an offensive missile capability that could deliver nuclear warheads.If Russia drops its opposition to further sanctions, China is likely to agree or at least to abstain because Beijing's policy is to avoid isolation within the UN security council \u2013 except to block international interference in Chinese interests in Sudan or foreign meddling in \"internal\" issues such as Taiwan and Tibet.Critics will be correct to argue that more UN sanctions against Tehran's nuclear activities are hypocritical, as they would perpetuate the inequality between non-nuclear states deemed too dangerous to have the bomb and nuclear states that are \"not all stable or democratic\", as Simon Jenkins has rightly remarked. Even Obama's US has not heeded President Hu's call for all nuclear-weapon countries to adopt China's \"no first use\" policy, providing Iran and North Korea with reasons to fear a US pre-emptive strike. Tehran and Pyongyang won't so quickly forget the fate of Iraq.That's why so much depends on American and Russian commitments to reduce and eventually abandon their nuclear arsenals.US-led punitive measures also tend to be counter-productive, as they turn countries into pariah states and embolden repressive regimes. Here Russia has a key role to play. Moscow is better placed than the west to help Iran develop its domestic economy by modernising the oil and gas sectors.Without renewed Russian investment in Iran's largely obsolete energy industry, the oil-funded Mullah theocracy will struggle to hold on to power in the face of growing resistance \u2013 especially since the fraudulent re-election of President Ahmadinejad.Together with Qatar, Russia and Iran (who together account for more than 60% of global natural gas reserves) are establishing a \"gas troika\" focusing on liquefied natural gas (LNG) that could lead to the biggest state-sponsored joint venture in the global energy market.Along with new supply routes to emerging markets in Asia, LNG could produce a decoupling of the gas and oil price. With the oil price set to fall again once the current commodity bubble bursts (which it will when expansionary measures like \"quantitative easing\" are scaled back), the gas price would not be adversely affected, making investment in the gas sector more lucrative yet.Moreover, the nascent global recovery, especially in China and other Asian countries, will increase demand for cleaner energy like natural gas. That is why the proposed \"gas troika\" is building a new pipeline system linking Iran to Qatar and ultimately to Asia. The plan is to pump gas from Iran's South Pars deposit, the world's largest with estimated reserves of about 14 trillion cubic metres, via a pipeline on the Persian Gulf floor to a LNG plant in Qatar's Ras Laffan province (about 100 miles from the deposit).Qatar has signed a contract with China to supply 7m metric tons of LNG per year. South Korea's rapidly increasing consumption of liquefied gas creates another significant source of demand for gas produced by the troika, estimated to be worth $4bn.Involving Qatar, which hosts a major US military basis, has the additional advantage of easing tensions between Iran and the Gulf states, which are increasingly nervous about Tehran's hardline stance. On this key issue and on the Israel-Palestine peace process, the Kremlin has now the unique chance to act as an honest broker.In short, Moscow can combine the stick of economic and political sanctions against the ruling regime with the carrot of technological and financial support for developing Iran's energy sector. None of this will guarantee Tehran's compliance with international demands to disclose all its nuclear-related activities. But Russian leverage can make an important difference in defusing the growing tensions that threaten the entire Middle East.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia could sway Iran's nuclear ambitions | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-08-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was an unashamed display of military force, involving tanks, fighter jets and more than 3,000 soldiers. Last week China and Russia held their biggest joint military exercises ever - their battalions streaking across the plateaus and shimmering plains of Shenyang province.The exercises come as Moscow and Beijing prepare to celebrate an important moment in history: 60 years of diplomatic relations. After long periods of frigidity during the cold war, the two countries now claim to be enjoying an unprecedented strategic partnership.But the military manoeuvres - named Peace Operation 2009 - were not just about showing off, unleashing rockets at imaginary terrorist enemies or threatening the US. Instead their aim was to send an unambiguous message to the internal Muslim populations of China and Russia: no dissent will be tolerated.Both countries are now facing simmering Muslim uprisings. In China's case, this comes from Uighurs whose revolt in the north-west province of Xinjiang this summer has been brutally suppressed. Russia, meanwhile, is facing an insurgency of its own in the north Caucasus republics of Ingushetia, Chechnya and Dagestan.But while China and Russia have much in common, including a mutual fear of separatism and Islamic radicalism, there are also signal differences. Despite last week's exercises, and a visit to Russia by Hu Jintao, the Chinese president, in June, politicians in Moscow harbour a deep-seated fear of China - in particular, of Chinese encroachment.Russian TV recently claimed that Beijing has drawn up a secret plan. According to this top-secret blueprint, China is determined to grab back Russia's remote, but vast, far east region. China's strategy includes persuading migrants to settle in Russia, marry local women and steal or co-opt local businesses.Russia's far east has always been the most strategically vulnerable part of Moscow's fissiparous imperium, in what is the world's biggest country. Some 6,100km (3,800 miles) and an eight-hour flight from Moscow, the far east is home to just 6.5 million Russian citizens. Next door, across the Amur river in north-eastern China, there are 107 million Chinese. Given this demographic imbalance, there is a primordial fear in the Russian imagination that China will eventually try to steal back the Europe-sized far east of Russia - a region rich in mineral resources, trees, coal and fish. The salmon alone are an attractive target. A quarter of the world's Pacific salmon spawn in the volcanic Kamchatka peninsula. According to the Russian TV scenario, Beijing is furtively plotting to undo the Russian colonisation of the Pacific coastal region, started in the 18th century by tsarist-era adventurers. The area's original inhabitants were Chinese. These early nomads eked out a meagre living while dodging the tigers that still haunt the Sikhote-Alin mountains.In reality, the relationship is far more fascinating than the baseless fears of Russia's nationalists. Over the past decade the number of Chinese migrants working in Russia's far east has actually fallen. In Moscow, the authorities have recently shut down the capital's enormous Cherkizovsky market, turfing thousands of Chinese out of a job. The huge bazaar was home to Chinese traders selling billions of dollars-worth of grey-sector goods. (According to China's Xinhua agency, losses from Wenzhou in Zhejiang province alone amount to more than $800m, after Russian police confiscated their stocks.) Some 150 Chinese workers have been deported since the market was closed on 29 June.Most experts believe China's own strategic goals do not include Russia's far east, or primitive territorial expansion. Instead Beijing's priorities lie elsewhere. They include development, reunification with Taiwan and internal stability, which experts suggest is more of a priority than ever following last month's ethnic riots against Han Chinese in Xinjiang.According to Dr Bobo Lo, a lecturer on Chinese-Russian relations at the Centre for European Reform, Beijing's real challenge to Moscow is rather different. He argues that the rise of China will lead to the \"steady marginalisation of Russia from regional and global decision-making\". The Chinese do not want to invade Russia militarily because, he points out, they would lose.Any loss of influence would alarm the Kremlin, which still sees itself as a major global power. Over the past nine years, under president and then prime minister Vladimir Putin, Russia has worked hard to recover its superpower status. However, few outside Moscow doubt that the main challenge to the United States's increasingly wobbly global and economic hegemony comes not from Putin's Moscow but Hu's Beijing.In the meantime, informal ties between China and Russia are blossoming. During the summer, after the ice encrusting the Amur river melts, Russian tourists are now travelling to China from the attractive Russian town of Khabarovsk. Their destination is the gleaming Chinese town of Fuyuan, reached by whizzy hydrofoil.Yesterday, cruising down the Amur, Captain Alexander Udenka pointed out to the Observer the border between China and Russia. On the river's right bank is China and a series of low green mountains and Fuyuan's newly built high-rises. Out on the river, Chinese fishermen zip around in speedboats, looking for the giant but elusive Amur sturgeon.Over on the left bank, meanwhile, is Russia. Here there is no sign of human activity. The sandy bays are empty. There are not even any watchtowers - merely a shimmering green embankment of dense willows and oaks, as well as Manchurian nut trees and Japanese cherries - all apparently further evidence of far eastern Russia's lack of people.\"In 1969 China and Russia fought a war over one of these river islands,\" Udenka explains, sitting in his captain's cabin and steering in the middle of the river. \"It was a small war. Now there are good relations between Russia and China. We trust each other,\" he adds, in broken Chinese.A decade ago Fuyuan was little more than a village with a few pigs. Now it is a brash town, offering goods at less than half the price in Russia. During the season several hundred Russian tourists visit every day, staying on cheap two-day packages, and haggling with Chinese locals who have rapidly mastered the Russian language.Everything conceivable is on sale in Fuyuan - fur coats, computers, mobile telephones, socks and even sex toys. After trudging round the market for several hours, most Russians relax with a massage - \u00a310 for a one-hour session - or get their hair highlighted. Others tuck into a tasty lunch of silver carp caught from the Amur, or pork dumplings.\"I still haven't managed to get the hang of chopsticks,\" Igor, a 23-year-old Russian tourist confessed to the Observer. Igor showed off his new purchases - a black cowboy hat, a fake Armani jacket, Gillette Mach 3 razors and a bottle of aftershave with an English logo, \"Love Affairs\". Asked why he had decided to buy a cowboy hat, Igor replied: \"I got drunk last night.\" Local Russians can travel to Fuyuan without a visa. This suits Fuyuan's traders, many of whom have moved from elsewhere in China. \"I like Russians. They are pretty indiscriminate. They just grab everything and run,\" said Li Wing, 42, who owns a sex shop in Fuyuan. Fuyuan ends abruptly. Its shopping centre peters out at a decorative Chinese gate. From here, there is a stunning view of the Amur river and Russia. Up in the woods, among the pine trees, there is evidence of the environmental cost that new Chinese towns such as Fuyuan are wreaking: heaps of rubbish, plastic bags and a dead owl.The problem of what to do with the far east has long exercised Moscow's leadership. The Soviet Union offered generous subsidies to cajole workers and young couples to start a new life here. They got higher salaries, career opportunities, and flats. There were also cheap air fares back to European Russia. The incentives were needed given the region's harsh climate - scorching summers and freezing winters, with January temperatures regularly falling below -30C.However, after the demise of the Soviet Union this system collapsed. With a ticket to Moscow now costing \u00a3500 return, a new generation has grown up with weaker ties to the capital. Instead of visiting St Petersburg, local Russians are more likely to holiday in China - travelling by bus to the Chinese seaside resort of Dalian and other destinations in China's north east.Gradually, Asiatic Russians are getting to know their neighbours better. Farther down the Amur in the border town of Blagoveshchensk, Russian pensioners have even started buying up apartments on the Chinese side of the river. Other young Russians head west: since the early 1990s the Russian far east's population has plunged by 1.6 million. This exodus is a source of increasing worry for the Kremlin. On Friday Putin travelled to Khabarovsk to unveil a new pipeline stretching from the Russian island of Sakhalin to Khabarovsk and the far eastern port of Vladivostok. The pipeline will take gas to China, Japan and South Korea - part of an attempt to stimulate the region's economy.In June, during his trip to Russia, Hu attended a summit of the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, and held talks in Moscow with Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, which led to the signing of a massive oil deal. He also had tea with Putin. The deal reinforced China's growing economic influence in the region, and its emergence as a competitor with Russia for Central Asia's energy reserves.In Khabarovsk, meanwhile, few locals see much prospect of the far east breaking away from Moscow. Despite improved understanding between China and Russia, the cultures remain too different. (The Chinese see the Russians as western-centric.) In Khabarovsk, the last stop on the Trans-Siberian Railway before Vladivostok, nobody is talking about secessionism.\"I've had a few relationships with Russian girls. But I'll end up marrying a Chinese one,\" says Tsi Ke, 25, who has lived for the past decade in Khabarovsk. Tsi owns a thriving Chinese restaurant, where blonde Russian waitresses wear Chinese dresses. He adds: \"In China we believe a wife should stay at home a lot and be like a daughter to your own parents. For us, marriage isn't just between two people but between two families.\"A more pressing problem for the Kremlin is the growing estrangement between Russia's western and eastern halves. Resentment of Moscow and its far-away bureaucrats is rising. There have been grassroots protests in Khabarovsk and in Vladivostok after Moscow raised duties on second-hand Japanese cars late last year, killing off a major regional business. Anti-Kremlin protests are continuing.In May, Medvedev dropped into Khabarovsk for an EU-Russia summit. (The venue - 10 hours' flight from Brussels - was apparently chosen by Russia to punish the EU's pampered representatives, several of whom fell asleep during sessions).Medvedev flatteringly described the far east as his \"favourite part\" of Russia, and expressed sympathy with students too broke to travel to Moscow. This summer the Kremlin has introduced a scheme offering some discounted tickets to the under-23s.It remains to be seen whether the scheme will make much difference. In reality, though, successive governments in Moscow have done little to develop the far east - making the region susceptible to civic unrest and discontent. The region suffers from \"long-term neglect by Moscow\" and \"appalling corruption and misgovernment at regional level\", Bobo Lo says.Despite last week's show of unity during military manoeuvres, the relationship between Beijing and Moscow is no longer one of equals. Russia may see China as an important strategic counterweight to the US - with whom it is currently in conflict over a range of issues, including the planned US missile defence shield in central Europe.But the Chinese know that it is they, and not Putin's Russia, who are destined to become the world's newest superpower. And according to Bobo Lo, China is not interested in allowing strategic accommodation with Moscow to disrupt Beijing's more important partnership with Washington. \"Washington is still the world's only indispensable partner,\" he notes.\u2022 Throughout much of the cold war Beijing and Moscow were enemies. However, Stalin had encouraged and financed Mao Zedong's revolution, recognising his communist People's Republic in October 1949. The partnership survived Stalin's death and the early Khrushchev years.\u2022 In 1959 the two countries squabbled over which should lead the world communist movement, an ideological quarrel replicated in communist parties across Asia and Africa. Khrushchev's decision to back down during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis also needled Mao.\u2022 In March 1969 tensions exploded when Russia and China fought a brief war in Russia's far east over the disputed Damansky island (now known as Zhenbao), close to Khabarovsk.\u2022 Tensions continued in the 1970s and 1980s, especially after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, pictured above. D\u00e9tente only became possible after the Soviet Union's demise.\u2022 Over the past two decades relations between Beijing and the Russian Federation have improved, with booming trade, agreement on many international issues, and growing military co-operation. In 2004 Russia settled a long-running border dispute with China, handing over Tarabarov island in the Amur river, and half of another large island, Bolshoy Ussuriysky.\u2022 China's rise, however, is likely to place increasing strain on the relationship. Experts believe that, as China becomes a world superpower, Russia's influence will diminish - a fate the Kremlin is unlikely to accept.", "tags": ["Russia", "China", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Russia fears embrace of giant eastern neighbour, China"},{"date": "2009-07-07T11:26:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama ladled on the sugar before delivering the pill. He was lyrical on Russian contributions to the arts and sciences and its war-time suffering. Russia, he said, was a mighty river leaving its eternal mark on the global landscape.Then the medication was drip-fed into the message. Firstly, Russia and the US should co-operate to contain Iran and North Korea's nuclear programme because arms races in the Middle East and east Asia were in nobody's interests.That is more or less digestible in Moscow. The Russian government agrees wholeheartedly on that principle. They are alarmed. It is just the methods \u2013 and in particular the usefulness of sanctions \u2013 that are in dispute.The Russians agree too that al-Qaida and other jihadist movements are a significant common threat, as Obama insisted this morning in his New Economic School speech. That is why Moscow has agreed to allow the US to use Russian routes to supply its forces in Afghanistan.The bitterest pill came later and was aimed at Russia's sorest spot: its \"near abroad\". Moscow hates to be lectured to about countries of the former Soviet Union and eastern Europe, where Russia has centuries of history and lots of unfinished business. It sees the prospect of Nato enlargement into Ukraine and Georgia as a hostile act of encirclement.Russians bristle at Obama's suggestion that the idea of \"spheres of influence\" is a 19th-century oddity. \"That's easy for you to say,\" is the common Russian response to such suggestions. The US is not surrounded by a foreign alliance. It has not in living memory had the experience of being brutally invaded. And Washington is, after all, in a state of constant friction with Cuba, the one persistently hostile country in its hemisphere.Obama's claim that \"in 2009, a great power does not show strength by dominating or demonising other countries. The days when empires could treat sovereign states as pieces on a chess board are over\" will have drawn mirthless laughter in Moscow. That is precisely how many Russians see the US behaving around the world, particularly in the Middle East. If national sovereignty is paramount in Georgia, they routinely ask, why not in Serbia and Kosovo?The speech was not televised on the major Russian channels and the applause inside the lecture hall was polite. Russia is not vulnerable to Obamania. There are hard-nosed deals to be done over nuclear weapons, Afghanistan and possibly Iran. But the visceral attachment to Russia's \"near abroad\" cannot be severed by a new face and some sweet rhetoric.", "tags": ["Russia", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia won't swallow Barack Obama's bitterest pill"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-07-06T13:09:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "For much of the last two decades, at least as far as any American president was concerned, Russia and the post-Soviet space have been the Wild East, an exciting new petro-chemical rich frontier in which the natives were weak and disorganised, and the west was free to roam. The argument that Russians behaved the way they did because they could not get over the loss of their empire, somehow did not apply to the other side in all of this \u2013 those who claimed victory at the end of the cold war and continued to expand into the vacuum created by Russia's retreat. Because it was all done in the name of democracy and exercise of sovereignty, it did not exist.But it did to the Russians. Just beneath the touchy-feely atmospherics of Bill Clinton's patronising relationship with Boris Yeltsin, or the George Bush who peered deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes, lay a hard, unemotional calculation. If Russia kicked up about Kosovo, or Iraq, or missile defence, well so what? America would go ahead with it anyway. That attitude led to the creation of the most paranoid Russian leadership \u2013 at least in terms of how it evaluates the external threat that Nato poses \u2013 since Yuri Andropov.So Barack Obama is in Moscow today with a genuinely new message. He undoubtedly means it, but the big question is whether he can deliver it. The offer he makes of treating Russia as an equal partner has a genuinely better prospect of hitting fertile ground, than it does with the Muslim world, because it goes to the heart of the Russian nationalist narrative which says: what's good for the west must be bad for us.Turning that round will not be easy or swift. Take arms control. The two nations have between them 90% of the world's nuclear warheads but there the parity ends. There is no comparison between America's and Russia's conventional forces. One has the strongest,most transportable, best funded fighting force in the world, and the other has a collection of rusting ships, ageing bombers and tanks, a fraction of which are serviceable. There were 60,000 tanks ready to roll into western Europe at the height of the cold war, which was why Nato would have had to go nuclear if war broke out.In five years, there will be 2,000 Russian tanks. This means the roles are reversed: Russia's conventional forces are so weak in comparison to Nato's, that they now need the nuclear umbrella as a first line of defence.Of course, it is absurd to think in terms of a Nato attack on Russia. But when it comes to negotiating away the mutual threat, the number of ballistic missiles each side has is only the half of the problem. America's conventional forces are so overwhelming, that a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead could be mounted on virtually any platform anywhere in the world. They could be delivered from aircraft carriers, ships, even converted commercial aircraft. The US missile defence system, which will eventually be global, is an instrinsic part of the nuclear balance. There is every link between missiles and the ability to shoot them down in the early part of their trajectory. The Pentagon's determination to use space as a military platform is just as problematic.These are formidable technical problems to overcome, and the two sides have only until the end of the year to resolve them, when the current Start 1 treaty expires. What Obama can attempt to re-establish is a measure of mutual trust and a mechanism for regulating bilateral relations. Even if he succeeds, the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia and its deteriorating relationship with Ukraine will bubble away as permanent sources of conflict in the background. It will take years before Russia regulates its relationship with its poorer and weaker neighbours, and respects both their independence and their sovereignty. The only long-term answer is for Russia to be part of a pan-European security system, which would include Nato ,but over which it would not hold a veto. But that looks as far away now as the zero option of ridding the world of all nuclear warheads.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Can Obama deliver in Russia? | David Hearst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Iran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) \u2013 the UN's nuclear watchdog \u2013 in a letter that it is building a second uranium enrichment plant.At the G20 Pittsburgh summit, the US, France and the UK will accuse Tehran of building a secret nuclear weapons capability and threaten further UN sanctions. This will ratchet up tensions and trigger renewed speculation that Israel might launch a pre-emptive strike.So far, US-led efforts to increase pressure on Iran have failed in large part because of Russia's hostile stance in the UN security council. During Vladimir Putin's presidency (2000-08), Russia repeatedly opposed more punitive measures against Iran. Fuelled by a combination of anti-Americanism and renewed geopolitical ambition, Moscow insisted that Tehran had a sovereign right to build nuclear power stations \u2013 with Russian technological support.But now that the Obama administration is moving its anti-ballistic missile shield from land-based installations in eastern Europe to mobile vehicles closer to Iran, the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, declared on Wednesday at the UN in New York that \"sanctions are seldom productive but they are sometimes inevitable\".With the \"reset\" of US-Russian relations, the Kremlin has performed a spectacular \"rethink\" of its Iran policy. The \"secret\" Moscow visit by Binyamin Netanyahu on 7 September seemed to reassure the Russian leadership that Israel would not launch unilateral pre-emptive strikes against suspected Iranian nuclear installations \u2013 on the condition that Moscow promise not to equip Iran with the advanced S-300 system, an offensive missile capability that could deliver nuclear warheads.If Russia drops its opposition to further sanctions, China is likely to agree or at least to abstain because Beijing's policy is to avoid isolation within the UN security council \u2013 except to block international interference in Chinese interests in Sudan or foreign meddling in \"internal\" issues such as Taiwan and Tibet.Critics will be correct to argue that more UN sanctions against Tehran's nuclear activities are hypocritical, as they would perpetuate the inequality between non-nuclear states deemed too dangerous to have the bomb and nuclear states that are \"not all stable or democratic\", as Simon Jenkins has rightly remarked. Even Obama's US has not heeded President Hu's call for all nuclear-weapon countries to adopt China's \"no first use\" policy, providing Iran and North Korea with reasons to fear a US pre-emptive strike. Tehran and Pyongyang won't so quickly forget the fate of Iraq.That's why so much depends on American and Russian commitments to reduce and eventually abandon their nuclear arsenals.US-led punitive measures also tend to be counter-productive, as they turn countries into pariah states and embolden repressive regimes. Here Russia has a key role to play. Moscow is better placed than the west to help Iran develop its domestic economy by modernising the oil and gas sectors.Without renewed Russian investment in Iran's largely obsolete energy industry, the oil-funded Mullah theocracy will struggle to hold on to power in the face of growing resistance \u2013 especially since the fraudulent re-election of President Ahmadinejad.Together with Qatar, Russia and Iran (who together account for more than 60% of global natural gas reserves) are establishing a \"gas troika\" focusing on liquefied natural gas (LNG) that could lead to the biggest state-sponsored joint venture in the global energy market.Along with new supply routes to emerging markets in Asia, LNG could produce a decoupling of the gas and oil price. With the oil price set to fall again once the current commodity bubble bursts (which it will when expansionary measures like \"quantitative easing\" are scaled back), the gas price would not be adversely affected, making investment in the gas sector more lucrative yet.Moreover, the nascent global recovery, especially in China and other Asian countries, will increase demand for cleaner energy like natural gas. That is why the proposed \"gas troika\" is building a new pipeline system linking Iran to Qatar and ultimately to Asia. The plan is to pump gas from Iran's South Pars deposit, the world's largest with estimated reserves of about 14 trillion cubic metres, via a pipeline on the Persian Gulf floor to a LNG plant in Qatar's Ras Laffan province (about 100 miles from the deposit).Qatar has signed a contract with China to supply 7m metric tons of LNG per year. South Korea's rapidly increasing consumption of liquefied gas creates another significant source of demand for gas produced by the troika, estimated to be worth $4bn.Involving Qatar, which hosts a major US military basis, has the additional advantage of easing tensions between Iran and the Gulf states, which are increasingly nervous about Tehran's hardline stance. On this key issue and on the Israel-Palestine peace process, the Kremlin has now the unique chance to act as an honest broker.In short, Moscow can combine the stick of economic and political sanctions against the ruling regime with the carrot of technological and financial support for developing Iran's energy sector. None of this will guarantee Tehran's compliance with international demands to disclose all its nuclear-related activities. But Russian leverage can make an important difference in defusing the growing tensions that threaten the entire Middle East.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia could sway Iran's nuclear ambitions | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-08-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was an unashamed display of military force, involving tanks, fighter jets and more than 3,000 soldiers. Last week China and Russia held their biggest joint military exercises ever - their battalions streaking across the plateaus and shimmering plains of Shenyang province.The exercises come as Moscow and Beijing prepare to celebrate an important moment in history: 60 years of diplomatic relations. After long periods of frigidity during the cold war, the two countries now claim to be enjoying an unprecedented strategic partnership.But the military manoeuvres - named Peace Operation 2009 - were not just about showing off, unleashing rockets at imaginary terrorist enemies or threatening the US. Instead their aim was to send an unambiguous message to the internal Muslim populations of China and Russia: no dissent will be tolerated.Both countries are now facing simmering Muslim uprisings. In China's case, this comes from Uighurs whose revolt in the north-west province of Xinjiang this summer has been brutally suppressed. Russia, meanwhile, is facing an insurgency of its own in the north Caucasus republics of Ingushetia, Chechnya and Dagestan.But while China and Russia have much in common, including a mutual fear of separatism and Islamic radicalism, there are also signal differences. Despite last week's exercises, and a visit to Russia by Hu Jintao, the Chinese president, in June, politicians in Moscow harbour a deep-seated fear of China - in particular, of Chinese encroachment.Russian TV recently claimed that Beijing has drawn up a secret plan. According to this top-secret blueprint, China is determined to grab back Russia's remote, but vast, far east region. China's strategy includes persuading migrants to settle in Russia, marry local women and steal or co-opt local businesses.Russia's far east has always been the most strategically vulnerable part of Moscow's fissiparous imperium, in what is the world's biggest country. Some 6,100km (3,800 miles) and an eight-hour flight from Moscow, the far east is home to just 6.5 million Russian citizens. Next door, across the Amur river in north-eastern China, there are 107 million Chinese. Given this demographic imbalance, there is a primordial fear in the Russian imagination that China will eventually try to steal back the Europe-sized far east of Russia - a region rich in mineral resources, trees, coal and fish. The salmon alone are an attractive target. A quarter of the world's Pacific salmon spawn in the volcanic Kamchatka peninsula. According to the Russian TV scenario, Beijing is furtively plotting to undo the Russian colonisation of the Pacific coastal region, started in the 18th century by tsarist-era adventurers. The area's original inhabitants were Chinese. These early nomads eked out a meagre living while dodging the tigers that still haunt the Sikhote-Alin mountains.In reality, the relationship is far more fascinating than the baseless fears of Russia's nationalists. Over the past decade the number of Chinese migrants working in Russia's far east has actually fallen. In Moscow, the authorities have recently shut down the capital's enormous Cherkizovsky market, turfing thousands of Chinese out of a job. The huge bazaar was home to Chinese traders selling billions of dollars-worth of grey-sector goods. (According to China's Xinhua agency, losses from Wenzhou in Zhejiang province alone amount to more than $800m, after Russian police confiscated their stocks.) Some 150 Chinese workers have been deported since the market was closed on 29 June.Most experts believe China's own strategic goals do not include Russia's far east, or primitive territorial expansion. Instead Beijing's priorities lie elsewhere. They include development, reunification with Taiwan and internal stability, which experts suggest is more of a priority than ever following last month's ethnic riots against Han Chinese in Xinjiang.According to Dr Bobo Lo, a lecturer on Chinese-Russian relations at the Centre for European Reform, Beijing's real challenge to Moscow is rather different. He argues that the rise of China will lead to the \"steady marginalisation of Russia from regional and global decision-making\". The Chinese do not want to invade Russia militarily because, he points out, they would lose.Any loss of influence would alarm the Kremlin, which still sees itself as a major global power. Over the past nine years, under president and then prime minister Vladimir Putin, Russia has worked hard to recover its superpower status. However, few outside Moscow doubt that the main challenge to the United States's increasingly wobbly global and economic hegemony comes not from Putin's Moscow but Hu's Beijing.In the meantime, informal ties between China and Russia are blossoming. During the summer, after the ice encrusting the Amur river melts, Russian tourists are now travelling to China from the attractive Russian town of Khabarovsk. Their destination is the gleaming Chinese town of Fuyuan, reached by whizzy hydrofoil.Yesterday, cruising down the Amur, Captain Alexander Udenka pointed out to the Observer the border between China and Russia. On the river's right bank is China and a series of low green mountains and Fuyuan's newly built high-rises. Out on the river, Chinese fishermen zip around in speedboats, looking for the giant but elusive Amur sturgeon.Over on the left bank, meanwhile, is Russia. Here there is no sign of human activity. The sandy bays are empty. There are not even any watchtowers - merely a shimmering green embankment of dense willows and oaks, as well as Manchurian nut trees and Japanese cherries - all apparently further evidence of far eastern Russia's lack of people.\"In 1969 China and Russia fought a war over one of these river islands,\" Udenka explains, sitting in his captain's cabin and steering in the middle of the river. \"It was a small war. Now there are good relations between Russia and China. We trust each other,\" he adds, in broken Chinese.A decade ago Fuyuan was little more than a village with a few pigs. Now it is a brash town, offering goods at less than half the price in Russia. During the season several hundred Russian tourists visit every day, staying on cheap two-day packages, and haggling with Chinese locals who have rapidly mastered the Russian language.Everything conceivable is on sale in Fuyuan - fur coats, computers, mobile telephones, socks and even sex toys. After trudging round the market for several hours, most Russians relax with a massage - \u00a310 for a one-hour session - or get their hair highlighted. Others tuck into a tasty lunch of silver carp caught from the Amur, or pork dumplings.\"I still haven't managed to get the hang of chopsticks,\" Igor, a 23-year-old Russian tourist confessed to the Observer. Igor showed off his new purchases - a black cowboy hat, a fake Armani jacket, Gillette Mach 3 razors and a bottle of aftershave with an English logo, \"Love Affairs\". Asked why he had decided to buy a cowboy hat, Igor replied: \"I got drunk last night.\" Local Russians can travel to Fuyuan without a visa. This suits Fuyuan's traders, many of whom have moved from elsewhere in China. \"I like Russians. They are pretty indiscriminate. They just grab everything and run,\" said Li Wing, 42, who owns a sex shop in Fuyuan. Fuyuan ends abruptly. Its shopping centre peters out at a decorative Chinese gate. From here, there is a stunning view of the Amur river and Russia. Up in the woods, among the pine trees, there is evidence of the environmental cost that new Chinese towns such as Fuyuan are wreaking: heaps of rubbish, plastic bags and a dead owl.The problem of what to do with the far east has long exercised Moscow's leadership. The Soviet Union offered generous subsidies to cajole workers and young couples to start a new life here. They got higher salaries, career opportunities, and flats. There were also cheap air fares back to European Russia. The incentives were needed given the region's harsh climate - scorching summers and freezing winters, with January temperatures regularly falling below -30C.However, after the demise of the Soviet Union this system collapsed. With a ticket to Moscow now costing \u00a3500 return, a new generation has grown up with weaker ties to the capital. Instead of visiting St Petersburg, local Russians are more likely to holiday in China - travelling by bus to the Chinese seaside resort of Dalian and other destinations in China's north east.Gradually, Asiatic Russians are getting to know their neighbours better. Farther down the Amur in the border town of Blagoveshchensk, Russian pensioners have even started buying up apartments on the Chinese side of the river. Other young Russians head west: since the early 1990s the Russian far east's population has plunged by 1.6 million. This exodus is a source of increasing worry for the Kremlin. On Friday Putin travelled to Khabarovsk to unveil a new pipeline stretching from the Russian island of Sakhalin to Khabarovsk and the far eastern port of Vladivostok. The pipeline will take gas to China, Japan and South Korea - part of an attempt to stimulate the region's economy.In June, during his trip to Russia, Hu attended a summit of the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, and held talks in Moscow with Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, which led to the signing of a massive oil deal. He also had tea with Putin. The deal reinforced China's growing economic influence in the region, and its emergence as a competitor with Russia for Central Asia's energy reserves.In Khabarovsk, meanwhile, few locals see much prospect of the far east breaking away from Moscow. Despite improved understanding between China and Russia, the cultures remain too different. (The Chinese see the Russians as western-centric.) In Khabarovsk, the last stop on the Trans-Siberian Railway before Vladivostok, nobody is talking about secessionism.\"I've had a few relationships with Russian girls. But I'll end up marrying a Chinese one,\" says Tsi Ke, 25, who has lived for the past decade in Khabarovsk. Tsi owns a thriving Chinese restaurant, where blonde Russian waitresses wear Chinese dresses. He adds: \"In China we believe a wife should stay at home a lot and be like a daughter to your own parents. For us, marriage isn't just between two people but between two families.\"A more pressing problem for the Kremlin is the growing estrangement between Russia's western and eastern halves. Resentment of Moscow and its far-away bureaucrats is rising. There have been grassroots protests in Khabarovsk and in Vladivostok after Moscow raised duties on second-hand Japanese cars late last year, killing off a major regional business. Anti-Kremlin protests are continuing.In May, Medvedev dropped into Khabarovsk for an EU-Russia summit. (The venue - 10 hours' flight from Brussels - was apparently chosen by Russia to punish the EU's pampered representatives, several of whom fell asleep during sessions).Medvedev flatteringly described the far east as his \"favourite part\" of Russia, and expressed sympathy with students too broke to travel to Moscow. This summer the Kremlin has introduced a scheme offering some discounted tickets to the under-23s.It remains to be seen whether the scheme will make much difference. In reality, though, successive governments in Moscow have done little to develop the far east - making the region susceptible to civic unrest and discontent. The region suffers from \"long-term neglect by Moscow\" and \"appalling corruption and misgovernment at regional level\", Bobo Lo says.Despite last week's show of unity during military manoeuvres, the relationship between Beijing and Moscow is no longer one of equals. Russia may see China as an important strategic counterweight to the US - with whom it is currently in conflict over a range of issues, including the planned US missile defence shield in central Europe.But the Chinese know that it is they, and not Putin's Russia, who are destined to become the world's newest superpower. And according to Bobo Lo, China is not interested in allowing strategic accommodation with Moscow to disrupt Beijing's more important partnership with Washington. \"Washington is still the world's only indispensable partner,\" he notes.\u2022 Throughout much of the cold war Beijing and Moscow were enemies. However, Stalin had encouraged and financed Mao Zedong's revolution, recognising his communist People's Republic in October 1949. The partnership survived Stalin's death and the early Khrushchev years.\u2022 In 1959 the two countries squabbled over which should lead the world communist movement, an ideological quarrel replicated in communist parties across Asia and Africa. Khrushchev's decision to back down during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis also needled Mao.\u2022 In March 1969 tensions exploded when Russia and China fought a brief war in Russia's far east over the disputed Damansky island (now known as Zhenbao), close to Khabarovsk.\u2022 Tensions continued in the 1970s and 1980s, especially after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, pictured above. D\u00e9tente only became possible after the Soviet Union's demise.\u2022 Over the past two decades relations between Beijing and the Russian Federation have improved, with booming trade, agreement on many international issues, and growing military co-operation. In 2004 Russia settled a long-running border dispute with China, handing over Tarabarov island in the Amur river, and half of another large island, Bolshoy Ussuriysky.\u2022 China's rise, however, is likely to place increasing strain on the relationship. Experts believe that, as China becomes a world superpower, Russia's influence will diminish - a fate the Kremlin is unlikely to accept.", "tags": ["Russia", "China", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Russia fears embrace of giant eastern neighbour, China"},{"date": "2009-07-07T11:26:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama ladled on the sugar before delivering the pill. He was lyrical on Russian contributions to the arts and sciences and its war-time suffering. Russia, he said, was a mighty river leaving its eternal mark on the global landscape.Then the medication was drip-fed into the message. Firstly, Russia and the US should co-operate to contain Iran and North Korea's nuclear programme because arms races in the Middle East and east Asia were in nobody's interests.That is more or less digestible in Moscow. The Russian government agrees wholeheartedly on that principle. They are alarmed. It is just the methods \u2013 and in particular the usefulness of sanctions \u2013 that are in dispute.The Russians agree too that al-Qaida and other jihadist movements are a significant common threat, as Obama insisted this morning in his New Economic School speech. That is why Moscow has agreed to allow the US to use Russian routes to supply its forces in Afghanistan.The bitterest pill came later and was aimed at Russia's sorest spot: its \"near abroad\". Moscow hates to be lectured to about countries of the former Soviet Union and eastern Europe, where Russia has centuries of history and lots of unfinished business. It sees the prospect of Nato enlargement into Ukraine and Georgia as a hostile act of encirclement.Russians bristle at Obama's suggestion that the idea of \"spheres of influence\" is a 19th-century oddity. \"That's easy for you to say,\" is the common Russian response to such suggestions. The US is not surrounded by a foreign alliance. It has not in living memory had the experience of being brutally invaded. And Washington is, after all, in a state of constant friction with Cuba, the one persistently hostile country in its hemisphere.Obama's claim that \"in 2009, a great power does not show strength by dominating or demonising other countries. The days when empires could treat sovereign states as pieces on a chess board are over\" will have drawn mirthless laughter in Moscow. That is precisely how many Russians see the US behaving around the world, particularly in the Middle East. If national sovereignty is paramount in Georgia, they routinely ask, why not in Serbia and Kosovo?The speech was not televised on the major Russian channels and the applause inside the lecture hall was polite. Russia is not vulnerable to Obamania. There are hard-nosed deals to be done over nuclear weapons, Afghanistan and possibly Iran. But the visceral attachment to Russia's \"near abroad\" cannot be severed by a new face and some sweet rhetoric.", "tags": ["Russia", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia won't swallow Barack Obama's bitterest pill"},{"date": "2009-09-18T13:49:33Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato today offered to include Moscow in its defence planning, announcing that missile shields being developed in the US and Europe could be integrated with Russian systems.The military alliance's overture to the Kremlin came within 24 hours of the White House announcing that it was scrapping the Pentagon's divisive proposed missile shield facilities in Poland and the Czech Republic.In his first major speech since taking over as the Nato secretary-general last month, the former Danish prime minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen also urged the alliance and Russia to conduct an unprecedented joint assessment of the major security challenges facing the world.He said his aim was eventually to see the US, the European Nato allies and the Russians \"plugging in to\" integrated missile defence systems to counter the perceived danger of rocket attacks from countries such as Iran.\"Our nations, and our forces deployed in theatre, will all become increasingly vulnerable to missile attacks by third parties,\" Rasmussen said in a speech in Brussels.\"We should explore the potential for linking the US, Nato and Russia missile defence systems at an appropriate time ... both Nato and Russia have a wealth of experience in missile defence.\"We should now work to combine this experience to our mutual benefit.\"Rasmussen admitted he did not possess the technical and military knowhow for such integration, but added: \"The most important thing right now is to give the political signal.\"His speech was devoted entirely to relations between Russia and the west, calling for a new beginning following a year of tension that followed last summer's war between Russia and Georgia.The initiative seemed to have been squared with Washington and the speech reflected strongly what diplomats are describing as the \"new realism\" of Barack Obama's foreign policy.The Russian prime minister, Vladimir Putin, an implacable opponent of the central European missile shield, praised the US decision to drop the European shield as \"correct and bold\".\"The latest decision by President Obama has positive implications,\" Putin said.Dmitri Trenin, the head of the Carnegie Endowment thinktank in Moscow and a leading Russian security and foreign policy analyst, said the White House decision to cancel the European missile shield projects could usher in a new era of Russian co-operation with the west.\"It is not a concession to Russia, but it's a big gesture,\" he said. \"It's the first concrete thing, the start of a real shift in US foreign policy.\"This could lead to real cooperation with Russia.\"Diplomats and Nato officials warned that the offer to develop integrated missile defences could still fall victim to arguments over Iran, which could be the principal target of any such missile shield.\"The Russians have very good relations with Iran and see no missile threat from Iran,\" an official said.In echoing the White House rhetoric about \"pressing the reset button\" on relations with Russia, Rasmussen went further than the US by calling for Nato and Russia to conduct a joint threat assessment of the big global security challenges.\"I propose that we undertake a joint review of Nato's and Russia's common threats and challenges,\" he said.\"We need an agreed analytical basis which we can then use to further enhance our practical cooperation.\"This offer is believed to have the backing of the US and the Germans, but the British and Canadians have reservations and central Europeans could also object.Diplomats said British officials asked Rasmussen to drop this part of his speech earlier this week, but the Dane refused.Moscow responded to the conciliatory moves by signalling the cancellation of threats to deploy short-range missiles in its Kaliningrad exclave, which sits within the EU.Medvedev warned last autumn that the Kremlin was ready to site missiles in the small Baltic Sea territory, next to Poland and Lithuania, if the US went ahead with the Polish and Czech installations.\"A planned set of measures that could have been taken in response will be frozen and could be cancelled fully in the future,\" the Interfax news agency reported a Russian government source as saying.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Poland", "Czech Republic", "US news", "Barack Obama", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers to include Russia in defence planning"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-07-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Anyone who doubts whether Russians are still willing to take on autocrats should look at the example of Natasha Estemirova, who was abducted and murdered in Grozny on Wednesday. Her job title said it all. To be head of the office of the human rights organisation Memorial in a place like Chechnya; to document the torture, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings that take place routinely there; to be threatened by the man responsible for this reign of terror; and yet to continue to live and work there regardless: this is bravery in its purest form. How many other human rights workers would be willing to take these risks in the knowledge that they could be the next victim?Oleg Orlov, the director of Memorial, had little hesitation yesterday in pointing the finger of blame at the Chechen president, Ramzan Kadyrov - the former rebel turned loyalist. Ms Estemirova collaborated on two reports into punitive house burnings and killings carried out by the \"kadyrovtsy\", thousands of armed thugs who form part of the state's official forces. President Kadyrov's critics are shot wherever they happen to live. The campaigning journalist Anna Politkovskaya, a friend of Ms Estemirova, was assassinated outside her flat in Moscow in 2006. A lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, was shot dead in Moscow in January, as was a former member of the president's bodyguard, Umar Israilov, in Vienna. He claimed the Chechen leader had personally taken part in his torture. When Politkovskaya was killed, President Kadyrov claimed he had been set up by his political opponents; in the same vein, he vowed yesterday to pursue Ms Estemirova's killers, whom he called \"the cruellest of criminals\".But the longer these killings continue, the more President Kadyrov himself becomes a liability for the Kremlin. The presidents of autonomous republics in the Russian Federation are direct Kremlin appointees, as are the governors of regions. These appointees are rubber-stamped by regional parliaments, but responsibility for their actions now lies firmly with the Russian president. Dmitry Medvedev has exercised his power over despots in the North Caucasus before. Last October he forced Murat Zyazikov from office in neighbouring Ingushetia after 80,000 - out of a population of 480,000 - signed a petition demanding the corrupt leader go. Mr Medvedev could use his presidential powers again. However, President Kadyrov and his gang are so entrenched in power (his portrait looms from huge billboards in Grozny) that removing him may not be as simple as it was with President Zyazikov. The Chechen leader's main rival, Sulim Yamadayev, was killed in Dubai in March, and the president himself is popular in Chechnya. Under his rule, Grozny was rebuilt from the ruins of two bitter wars.Western governments should not simply give up on Chechnya, as George Bush and Tony Blair did when they made their Faustian pact with Vladimir Putin over Afghanistan. After a period of prolonged tension which culminated with the war in Georgia, Russia is once again on the brink of a deal with the US. The outlines of this are clear, as is the timing. Barack Obama drops, significantly delays or substantially modifies plans to install missile defence batteries in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic, in return for which Russia backs the US drive for tougher sanctions against Iran in the UN security council.If this materialises, and all this has to happen in the next few months, Russia may decide it has bigger fish to fry. British and US troops have been found guilty of gross human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Britain has used proxy torturers in Pakistan. But in both countries a judicial process exists to reveal dirty secrets, and television channels report them. There is no such process in Russia, and the killers are never brought to book. Every western politician should follow the example set by Angela Merkel yesterday by keeping Chechnya on the political agenda. Natasha Estemirova would have done no less.\u2022 This article was amended on 7 August 2009. The original referred to Stanislav Markov. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Chechnya", "Freedom of speech", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Human rights", "Russia", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Defying the autocrats | Editorial"},{"date": "2009-07-06T13:09:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "For much of the last two decades, at least as far as any American president was concerned, Russia and the post-Soviet space have been the Wild East, an exciting new petro-chemical rich frontier in which the natives were weak and disorganised, and the west was free to roam. The argument that Russians behaved the way they did because they could not get over the loss of their empire, somehow did not apply to the other side in all of this \u2013 those who claimed victory at the end of the cold war and continued to expand into the vacuum created by Russia's retreat. Because it was all done in the name of democracy and exercise of sovereignty, it did not exist.But it did to the Russians. Just beneath the touchy-feely atmospherics of Bill Clinton's patronising relationship with Boris Yeltsin, or the George Bush who peered deep into Vladimir Putin's eyes, lay a hard, unemotional calculation. If Russia kicked up about Kosovo, or Iraq, or missile defence, well so what? America would go ahead with it anyway. That attitude led to the creation of the most paranoid Russian leadership \u2013 at least in terms of how it evaluates the external threat that Nato poses \u2013 since Yuri Andropov.So Barack Obama is in Moscow today with a genuinely new message. He undoubtedly means it, but the big question is whether he can deliver it. The offer he makes of treating Russia as an equal partner has a genuinely better prospect of hitting fertile ground, than it does with the Muslim world, because it goes to the heart of the Russian nationalist narrative which says: what's good for the west must be bad for us.Turning that round will not be easy or swift. Take arms control. The two nations have between them 90% of the world's nuclear warheads but there the parity ends. There is no comparison between America's and Russia's conventional forces. One has the strongest,most transportable, best funded fighting force in the world, and the other has a collection of rusting ships, ageing bombers and tanks, a fraction of which are serviceable. There were 60,000 tanks ready to roll into western Europe at the height of the cold war, which was why Nato would have had to go nuclear if war broke out.In five years, there will be 2,000 Russian tanks. This means the roles are reversed: Russia's conventional forces are so weak in comparison to Nato's, that they now need the nuclear umbrella as a first line of defence.Of course, it is absurd to think in terms of a Nato attack on Russia. But when it comes to negotiating away the mutual threat, the number of ballistic missiles each side has is only the half of the problem. America's conventional forces are so overwhelming, that a cruise missile with a nuclear warhead could be mounted on virtually any platform anywhere in the world. They could be delivered from aircraft carriers, ships, even converted commercial aircraft. The US missile defence system, which will eventually be global, is an instrinsic part of the nuclear balance. There is every link between missiles and the ability to shoot them down in the early part of their trajectory. The Pentagon's determination to use space as a military platform is just as problematic.These are formidable technical problems to overcome, and the two sides have only until the end of the year to resolve them, when the current Start 1 treaty expires. What Obama can attempt to re-establish is a measure of mutual trust and a mechanism for regulating bilateral relations. Even if he succeeds, the aftermath of Russia's war with Georgia and its deteriorating relationship with Ukraine will bubble away as permanent sources of conflict in the background. It will take years before Russia regulates its relationship with its poorer and weaker neighbours, and respects both their independence and their sovereignty. The only long-term answer is for Russia to be part of a pan-European security system, which would include Nato ,but over which it would not hold a veto. But that looks as far away now as the zero option of ridding the world of all nuclear warheads.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Can Obama deliver in Russia? | David Hearst"},{"date": "2009-09-25T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Iran has informed the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) \u2013 the UN's nuclear watchdog \u2013 in a letter that it is building a second uranium enrichment plant.At the G20 Pittsburgh summit, the US, France and the UK will accuse Tehran of building a secret nuclear weapons capability and threaten further UN sanctions. This will ratchet up tensions and trigger renewed speculation that Israel might launch a pre-emptive strike.So far, US-led efforts to increase pressure on Iran have failed in large part because of Russia's hostile stance in the UN security council. During Vladimir Putin's presidency (2000-08), Russia repeatedly opposed more punitive measures against Iran. Fuelled by a combination of anti-Americanism and renewed geopolitical ambition, Moscow insisted that Tehran had a sovereign right to build nuclear power stations \u2013 with Russian technological support.But now that the Obama administration is moving its anti-ballistic missile shield from land-based installations in eastern Europe to mobile vehicles closer to Iran, the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, declared on Wednesday at the UN in New York that \"sanctions are seldom productive but they are sometimes inevitable\".With the \"reset\" of US-Russian relations, the Kremlin has performed a spectacular \"rethink\" of its Iran policy. The \"secret\" Moscow visit by Binyamin Netanyahu on 7 September seemed to reassure the Russian leadership that Israel would not launch unilateral pre-emptive strikes against suspected Iranian nuclear installations \u2013 on the condition that Moscow promise not to equip Iran with the advanced S-300 system, an offensive missile capability that could deliver nuclear warheads.If Russia drops its opposition to further sanctions, China is likely to agree or at least to abstain because Beijing's policy is to avoid isolation within the UN security council \u2013 except to block international interference in Chinese interests in Sudan or foreign meddling in \"internal\" issues such as Taiwan and Tibet.Critics will be correct to argue that more UN sanctions against Tehran's nuclear activities are hypocritical, as they would perpetuate the inequality between non-nuclear states deemed too dangerous to have the bomb and nuclear states that are \"not all stable or democratic\", as Simon Jenkins has rightly remarked. Even Obama's US has not heeded President Hu's call for all nuclear-weapon countries to adopt China's \"no first use\" policy, providing Iran and North Korea with reasons to fear a US pre-emptive strike. Tehran and Pyongyang won't so quickly forget the fate of Iraq.That's why so much depends on American and Russian commitments to reduce and eventually abandon their nuclear arsenals.US-led punitive measures also tend to be counter-productive, as they turn countries into pariah states and embolden repressive regimes. Here Russia has a key role to play. Moscow is better placed than the west to help Iran develop its domestic economy by modernising the oil and gas sectors.Without renewed Russian investment in Iran's largely obsolete energy industry, the oil-funded Mullah theocracy will struggle to hold on to power in the face of growing resistance \u2013 especially since the fraudulent re-election of President Ahmadinejad.Together with Qatar, Russia and Iran (who together account for more than 60% of global natural gas reserves) are establishing a \"gas troika\" focusing on liquefied natural gas (LNG) that could lead to the biggest state-sponsored joint venture in the global energy market.Along with new supply routes to emerging markets in Asia, LNG could produce a decoupling of the gas and oil price. With the oil price set to fall again once the current commodity bubble bursts (which it will when expansionary measures like \"quantitative easing\" are scaled back), the gas price would not be adversely affected, making investment in the gas sector more lucrative yet.Moreover, the nascent global recovery, especially in China and other Asian countries, will increase demand for cleaner energy like natural gas. That is why the proposed \"gas troika\" is building a new pipeline system linking Iran to Qatar and ultimately to Asia. The plan is to pump gas from Iran's South Pars deposit, the world's largest with estimated reserves of about 14 trillion cubic metres, via a pipeline on the Persian Gulf floor to a LNG plant in Qatar's Ras Laffan province (about 100 miles from the deposit).Qatar has signed a contract with China to supply 7m metric tons of LNG per year. South Korea's rapidly increasing consumption of liquefied gas creates another significant source of demand for gas produced by the troika, estimated to be worth $4bn.Involving Qatar, which hosts a major US military basis, has the additional advantage of easing tensions between Iran and the Gulf states, which are increasingly nervous about Tehran's hardline stance. On this key issue and on the Israel-Palestine peace process, the Kremlin has now the unique chance to act as an honest broker.In short, Moscow can combine the stick of economic and political sanctions against the ruling regime with the carrot of technological and financial support for developing Iran's energy sector. None of this will guarantee Tehran's compliance with international demands to disclose all its nuclear-related activities. But Russian leverage can make an important difference in defusing the growing tensions that threaten the entire Middle East.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia could sway Iran's nuclear ambitions | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-08-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It was an unashamed display of military force, involving tanks, fighter jets and more than 3,000 soldiers. Last week China and Russia held their biggest joint military exercises ever - their battalions streaking across the plateaus and shimmering plains of Shenyang province.The exercises come as Moscow and Beijing prepare to celebrate an important moment in history: 60 years of diplomatic relations. After long periods of frigidity during the cold war, the two countries now claim to be enjoying an unprecedented strategic partnership.But the military manoeuvres - named Peace Operation 2009 - were not just about showing off, unleashing rockets at imaginary terrorist enemies or threatening the US. Instead their aim was to send an unambiguous message to the internal Muslim populations of China and Russia: no dissent will be tolerated.Both countries are now facing simmering Muslim uprisings. In China's case, this comes from Uighurs whose revolt in the north-west province of Xinjiang this summer has been brutally suppressed. Russia, meanwhile, is facing an insurgency of its own in the north Caucasus republics of Ingushetia, Chechnya and Dagestan.But while China and Russia have much in common, including a mutual fear of separatism and Islamic radicalism, there are also signal differences. Despite last week's exercises, and a visit to Russia by Hu Jintao, the Chinese president, in June, politicians in Moscow harbour a deep-seated fear of China - in particular, of Chinese encroachment.Russian TV recently claimed that Beijing has drawn up a secret plan. According to this top-secret blueprint, China is determined to grab back Russia's remote, but vast, far east region. China's strategy includes persuading migrants to settle in Russia, marry local women and steal or co-opt local businesses.Russia's far east has always been the most strategically vulnerable part of Moscow's fissiparous imperium, in what is the world's biggest country. Some 6,100km (3,800 miles) and an eight-hour flight from Moscow, the far east is home to just 6.5 million Russian citizens. Next door, across the Amur river in north-eastern China, there are 107 million Chinese. Given this demographic imbalance, there is a primordial fear in the Russian imagination that China will eventually try to steal back the Europe-sized far east of Russia - a region rich in mineral resources, trees, coal and fish. The salmon alone are an attractive target. A quarter of the world's Pacific salmon spawn in the volcanic Kamchatka peninsula. According to the Russian TV scenario, Beijing is furtively plotting to undo the Russian colonisation of the Pacific coastal region, started in the 18th century by tsarist-era adventurers. The area's original inhabitants were Chinese. These early nomads eked out a meagre living while dodging the tigers that still haunt the Sikhote-Alin mountains.In reality, the relationship is far more fascinating than the baseless fears of Russia's nationalists. Over the past decade the number of Chinese migrants working in Russia's far east has actually fallen. In Moscow, the authorities have recently shut down the capital's enormous Cherkizovsky market, turfing thousands of Chinese out of a job. The huge bazaar was home to Chinese traders selling billions of dollars-worth of grey-sector goods. (According to China's Xinhua agency, losses from Wenzhou in Zhejiang province alone amount to more than $800m, after Russian police confiscated their stocks.) Some 150 Chinese workers have been deported since the market was closed on 29 June.Most experts believe China's own strategic goals do not include Russia's far east, or primitive territorial expansion. Instead Beijing's priorities lie elsewhere. They include development, reunification with Taiwan and internal stability, which experts suggest is more of a priority than ever following last month's ethnic riots against Han Chinese in Xinjiang.According to Dr Bobo Lo, a lecturer on Chinese-Russian relations at the Centre for European Reform, Beijing's real challenge to Moscow is rather different. He argues that the rise of China will lead to the \"steady marginalisation of Russia from regional and global decision-making\". The Chinese do not want to invade Russia militarily because, he points out, they would lose.Any loss of influence would alarm the Kremlin, which still sees itself as a major global power. Over the past nine years, under president and then prime minister Vladimir Putin, Russia has worked hard to recover its superpower status. However, few outside Moscow doubt that the main challenge to the United States's increasingly wobbly global and economic hegemony comes not from Putin's Moscow but Hu's Beijing.In the meantime, informal ties between China and Russia are blossoming. During the summer, after the ice encrusting the Amur river melts, Russian tourists are now travelling to China from the attractive Russian town of Khabarovsk. Their destination is the gleaming Chinese town of Fuyuan, reached by whizzy hydrofoil.Yesterday, cruising down the Amur, Captain Alexander Udenka pointed out to the Observer the border between China and Russia. On the river's right bank is China and a series of low green mountains and Fuyuan's newly built high-rises. Out on the river, Chinese fishermen zip around in speedboats, looking for the giant but elusive Amur sturgeon.Over on the left bank, meanwhile, is Russia. Here there is no sign of human activity. The sandy bays are empty. There are not even any watchtowers - merely a shimmering green embankment of dense willows and oaks, as well as Manchurian nut trees and Japanese cherries - all apparently further evidence of far eastern Russia's lack of people.\"In 1969 China and Russia fought a war over one of these river islands,\" Udenka explains, sitting in his captain's cabin and steering in the middle of the river. \"It was a small war. Now there are good relations between Russia and China. We trust each other,\" he adds, in broken Chinese.A decade ago Fuyuan was little more than a village with a few pigs. Now it is a brash town, offering goods at less than half the price in Russia. During the season several hundred Russian tourists visit every day, staying on cheap two-day packages, and haggling with Chinese locals who have rapidly mastered the Russian language.Everything conceivable is on sale in Fuyuan - fur coats, computers, mobile telephones, socks and even sex toys. After trudging round the market for several hours, most Russians relax with a massage - \u00a310 for a one-hour session - or get their hair highlighted. Others tuck into a tasty lunch of silver carp caught from the Amur, or pork dumplings.\"I still haven't managed to get the hang of chopsticks,\" Igor, a 23-year-old Russian tourist confessed to the Observer. Igor showed off his new purchases - a black cowboy hat, a fake Armani jacket, Gillette Mach 3 razors and a bottle of aftershave with an English logo, \"Love Affairs\". Asked why he had decided to buy a cowboy hat, Igor replied: \"I got drunk last night.\" Local Russians can travel to Fuyuan without a visa. This suits Fuyuan's traders, many of whom have moved from elsewhere in China. \"I like Russians. They are pretty indiscriminate. They just grab everything and run,\" said Li Wing, 42, who owns a sex shop in Fuyuan. Fuyuan ends abruptly. Its shopping centre peters out at a decorative Chinese gate. From here, there is a stunning view of the Amur river and Russia. Up in the woods, among the pine trees, there is evidence of the environmental cost that new Chinese towns such as Fuyuan are wreaking: heaps of rubbish, plastic bags and a dead owl.The problem of what to do with the far east has long exercised Moscow's leadership. The Soviet Union offered generous subsidies to cajole workers and young couples to start a new life here. They got higher salaries, career opportunities, and flats. There were also cheap air fares back to European Russia. The incentives were needed given the region's harsh climate - scorching summers and freezing winters, with January temperatures regularly falling below -30C.However, after the demise of the Soviet Union this system collapsed. With a ticket to Moscow now costing \u00a3500 return, a new generation has grown up with weaker ties to the capital. Instead of visiting St Petersburg, local Russians are more likely to holiday in China - travelling by bus to the Chinese seaside resort of Dalian and other destinations in China's north east.Gradually, Asiatic Russians are getting to know their neighbours better. Farther down the Amur in the border town of Blagoveshchensk, Russian pensioners have even started buying up apartments on the Chinese side of the river. Other young Russians head west: since the early 1990s the Russian far east's population has plunged by 1.6 million. This exodus is a source of increasing worry for the Kremlin. On Friday Putin travelled to Khabarovsk to unveil a new pipeline stretching from the Russian island of Sakhalin to Khabarovsk and the far eastern port of Vladivostok. The pipeline will take gas to China, Japan and South Korea - part of an attempt to stimulate the region's economy.In June, during his trip to Russia, Hu attended a summit of the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, and held talks in Moscow with Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, which led to the signing of a massive oil deal. He also had tea with Putin. The deal reinforced China's growing economic influence in the region, and its emergence as a competitor with Russia for Central Asia's energy reserves.In Khabarovsk, meanwhile, few locals see much prospect of the far east breaking away from Moscow. Despite improved understanding between China and Russia, the cultures remain too different. (The Chinese see the Russians as western-centric.) In Khabarovsk, the last stop on the Trans-Siberian Railway before Vladivostok, nobody is talking about secessionism.\"I've had a few relationships with Russian girls. But I'll end up marrying a Chinese one,\" says Tsi Ke, 25, who has lived for the past decade in Khabarovsk. Tsi owns a thriving Chinese restaurant, where blonde Russian waitresses wear Chinese dresses. He adds: \"In China we believe a wife should stay at home a lot and be like a daughter to your own parents. For us, marriage isn't just between two people but between two families.\"A more pressing problem for the Kremlin is the growing estrangement between Russia's western and eastern halves. Resentment of Moscow and its far-away bureaucrats is rising. There have been grassroots protests in Khabarovsk and in Vladivostok after Moscow raised duties on second-hand Japanese cars late last year, killing off a major regional business. Anti-Kremlin protests are continuing.In May, Medvedev dropped into Khabarovsk for an EU-Russia summit. (The venue - 10 hours' flight from Brussels - was apparently chosen by Russia to punish the EU's pampered representatives, several of whom fell asleep during sessions).Medvedev flatteringly described the far east as his \"favourite part\" of Russia, and expressed sympathy with students too broke to travel to Moscow. This summer the Kremlin has introduced a scheme offering some discounted tickets to the under-23s.It remains to be seen whether the scheme will make much difference. In reality, though, successive governments in Moscow have done little to develop the far east - making the region susceptible to civic unrest and discontent. The region suffers from \"long-term neglect by Moscow\" and \"appalling corruption and misgovernment at regional level\", Bobo Lo says.Despite last week's show of unity during military manoeuvres, the relationship between Beijing and Moscow is no longer one of equals. Russia may see China as an important strategic counterweight to the US - with whom it is currently in conflict over a range of issues, including the planned US missile defence shield in central Europe.But the Chinese know that it is they, and not Putin's Russia, who are destined to become the world's newest superpower. And according to Bobo Lo, China is not interested in allowing strategic accommodation with Moscow to disrupt Beijing's more important partnership with Washington. \"Washington is still the world's only indispensable partner,\" he notes.\u2022 Throughout much of the cold war Beijing and Moscow were enemies. However, Stalin had encouraged and financed Mao Zedong's revolution, recognising his communist People's Republic in October 1949. The partnership survived Stalin's death and the early Khrushchev years.\u2022 In 1959 the two countries squabbled over which should lead the world communist movement, an ideological quarrel replicated in communist parties across Asia and Africa. Khrushchev's decision to back down during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis also needled Mao.\u2022 In March 1969 tensions exploded when Russia and China fought a brief war in Russia's far east over the disputed Damansky island (now known as Zhenbao), close to Khabarovsk.\u2022 Tensions continued in the 1970s and 1980s, especially after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, pictured above. D\u00e9tente only became possible after the Soviet Union's demise.\u2022 Over the past two decades relations between Beijing and the Russian Federation have improved, with booming trade, agreement on many international issues, and growing military co-operation. In 2004 Russia settled a long-running border dispute with China, handing over Tarabarov island in the Amur river, and half of another large island, Bolshoy Ussuriysky.\u2022 China's rise, however, is likely to place increasing strain on the relationship. Experts believe that, as China becomes a world superpower, Russia's influence will diminish - a fate the Kremlin is unlikely to accept.", "tags": ["Russia", "China", "World news", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Russia fears embrace of giant eastern neighbour, China"},{"date": "2009-07-07T11:26:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama ladled on the sugar before delivering the pill. He was lyrical on Russian contributions to the arts and sciences and its war-time suffering. Russia, he said, was a mighty river leaving its eternal mark on the global landscape.Then the medication was drip-fed into the message. Firstly, Russia and the US should co-operate to contain Iran and North Korea's nuclear programme because arms races in the Middle East and east Asia were in nobody's interests.That is more or less digestible in Moscow. The Russian government agrees wholeheartedly on that principle. They are alarmed. It is just the methods \u2013 and in particular the usefulness of sanctions \u2013 that are in dispute.The Russians agree too that al-Qaida and other jihadist movements are a significant common threat, as Obama insisted this morning in his New Economic School speech. That is why Moscow has agreed to allow the US to use Russian routes to supply its forces in Afghanistan.The bitterest pill came later and was aimed at Russia's sorest spot: its \"near abroad\". Moscow hates to be lectured to about countries of the former Soviet Union and eastern Europe, where Russia has centuries of history and lots of unfinished business. It sees the prospect of Nato enlargement into Ukraine and Georgia as a hostile act of encirclement.Russians bristle at Obama's suggestion that the idea of \"spheres of influence\" is a 19th-century oddity. \"That's easy for you to say,\" is the common Russian response to such suggestions. The US is not surrounded by a foreign alliance. It has not in living memory had the experience of being brutally invaded. And Washington is, after all, in a state of constant friction with Cuba, the one persistently hostile country in its hemisphere.Obama's claim that \"in 2009, a great power does not show strength by dominating or demonising other countries. The days when empires could treat sovereign states as pieces on a chess board are over\" will have drawn mirthless laughter in Moscow. That is precisely how many Russians see the US behaving around the world, particularly in the Middle East. If national sovereignty is paramount in Georgia, they routinely ask, why not in Serbia and Kosovo?The speech was not televised on the major Russian channels and the applause inside the lecture hall was polite. Russia is not vulnerable to Obamania. There are hard-nosed deals to be done over nuclear weapons, Afghanistan and possibly Iran. But the visceral attachment to Russia's \"near abroad\" cannot be severed by a new face and some sweet rhetoric.", "tags": ["Russia", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia won't swallow Barack Obama's bitterest pill"},{"date": "2009-09-18T13:49:33Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato today offered to include Moscow in its defence planning, announcing that missile shields being developed in the US and Europe could be integrated with Russian systems.The military alliance's overture to the Kremlin came within 24 hours of the White House announcing that it was scrapping the Pentagon's divisive proposed missile shield facilities in Poland and the Czech Republic.In his first major speech since taking over as the Nato secretary-general last month, the former Danish prime minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen also urged the alliance and Russia to conduct an unprecedented joint assessment of the major security challenges facing the world.He said his aim was eventually to see the US, the European Nato allies and the Russians \"plugging in to\" integrated missile defence systems to counter the perceived danger of rocket attacks from countries such as Iran.\"Our nations, and our forces deployed in theatre, will all become increasingly vulnerable to missile attacks by third parties,\" Rasmussen said in a speech in Brussels.\"We should explore the potential for linking the US, Nato and Russia missile defence systems at an appropriate time ... both Nato and Russia have a wealth of experience in missile defence.\"We should now work to combine this experience to our mutual benefit.\"Rasmussen admitted he did not possess the technical and military knowhow for such integration, but added: \"The most important thing right now is to give the political signal.\"His speech was devoted entirely to relations between Russia and the west, calling for a new beginning following a year of tension that followed last summer's war between Russia and Georgia.The initiative seemed to have been squared with Washington and the speech reflected strongly what diplomats are describing as the \"new realism\" of Barack Obama's foreign policy.The Russian prime minister, Vladimir Putin, an implacable opponent of the central European missile shield, praised the US decision to drop the European shield as \"correct and bold\".\"The latest decision by President Obama has positive implications,\" Putin said.Dmitri Trenin, the head of the Carnegie Endowment thinktank in Moscow and a leading Russian security and foreign policy analyst, said the White House decision to cancel the European missile shield projects could usher in a new era of Russian co-operation with the west.\"It is not a concession to Russia, but it's a big gesture,\" he said. \"It's the first concrete thing, the start of a real shift in US foreign policy.\"This could lead to real cooperation with Russia.\"Diplomats and Nato officials warned that the offer to develop integrated missile defences could still fall victim to arguments over Iran, which could be the principal target of any such missile shield.\"The Russians have very good relations with Iran and see no missile threat from Iran,\" an official said.In echoing the White House rhetoric about \"pressing the reset button\" on relations with Russia, Rasmussen went further than the US by calling for Nato and Russia to conduct a joint threat assessment of the big global security challenges.\"I propose that we undertake a joint review of Nato's and Russia's common threats and challenges,\" he said.\"We need an agreed analytical basis which we can then use to further enhance our practical cooperation.\"This offer is believed to have the backing of the US and the Germans, but the British and Canadians have reservations and central Europeans could also object.Diplomats said British officials asked Rasmussen to drop this part of his speech earlier this week, but the Dane refused.Moscow responded to the conciliatory moves by signalling the cancellation of threats to deploy short-range missiles in its Kaliningrad exclave, which sits within the EU.Medvedev warned last autumn that the Kremlin was ready to site missiles in the small Baltic Sea territory, next to Poland and Lithuania, if the US went ahead with the Polish and Czech installations.\"A planned set of measures that could have been taken in response will be frozen and could be cancelled fully in the future,\" the Interfax news agency reported a Russian government source as saying.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Poland", "Czech Republic", "US news", "Barack Obama", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers to include Russia in defence planning"},{"date": "2009-09-18T10:32:21Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The stated goal of the US's missile shield programme, which was devised during the Bush administration, was to defend the US against any missiles launched from Iran. However, the Russian government, especially the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, opposed it, for several reasons. It saw the programme as a challenge to Russia's own long-range missiles, important components of Russia's strategy of reasserting itself into the global arena as a superpower. Furthermore, plans to base the missiles in Czech Republic and Poland, countries which once were under Russian control, were also considered as provocative and even insulting to Moscow.Russia's leadership was so infuriated that it even went as far as threatening military action to dissuade the US and the host countries from deploying the system. This was an unprecedented move in Russia's post-cold war relations with the west. It was also a strong indication of the threat Moscow felt and how far it was willing to go to stop it from materialising.To some, especially American neoconservatives, Washington's decision to scrap the system may be interpreted as capitulation to Russia.However, if we look at the timing of the decision and the reaction from Moscow, we can see that President Obama may have a bigger goal in mind; preventing Iran from becoming armed with nuclear weapons.With talks between the P5+1 (consisting of the US, Russia, China, UK, France and Germany) and Iran scheduled for 1 October, Obama has been trying to ensure that the west enters the negotiations with a strong hand. To achieve this goal he has devised a multi-faceted strategy, which consisted of reaching out to the Muslim world through his Cairo speech, stabilising Iraq and increasing his efforts to restart talks between Israelis and Palestinians. He also reached out to the Iranian government through two letters to the Iranian supreme leader, as well as his New Year message to the people of Iran.All these efforts slowly started to put Iran's leadership on the back foot. Suddenly, it was deprived from its two main battle cries. One was that America was against the Muslim world and the other that the US had ambitions to apply regime change in Iran. This panicked Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, which is why he decided to back Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in presidential elections, apparently allowing extensive fraud in his favour.With the regime's legitimacy severely damaged domestically after the recent demonstrations, and its foreign influence weakened after Hezbollah's defeat in the Lebanese elections, the Iranian government became even more dependent on support from Russia and China.This is especially true after the Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov's statement last week that Moscow would not back further sanctions against Iran. After this, the importance of Russia to Iran's leaders as one of its two pillars of support in the UN security council increased even further.However, such sense of comfort in Tehran was unexpectedly dashed yesterday, after the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, stated what many consider to be a U-turn, by making a strong hint in his speech that Russia could now back tougher sanctions against Iran.This is a severe setback for Iran, as it is very possible that Russia would do this. Moscow has let Tehran down before, and it could do so again.However the question remains: did the recent Russian overture come about as part of a deal with Washington, whereby in return for scrapping the missile shield programme, Moscow would back the US in its efforts to impose tougher sanctions against Iran?Judging by statements made by Obama during a trip to Prague in April this year, the answer seems positive. During that trip, he linked the missile system issue to the Iranian nuclear programme. He suggested that a it could be discarded. \"If the Iranian threat is eliminated, we will have a stronger basis for security, and the driving force for missile defence construction in Europe at this time will be removed,\" the US president said. The fact that the US scrapped this system the day after Medvedev's statement further backs the theory that a deal was made, especially since Russian backing for sanctions could eliminate the Iranian threat, as Obama put it.Should Russia desert Iran's side and join the west, China could find itself standing alone. Under such circumstances, its leadership could also decide that the cost of supporting Iran far outweighs the benefits. This would mean that the US achieved two goals, with one move.Obama's decision shows that the US president is prioritising. Although the missile defence shield is important, stopping Iran from becoming armed with nuclear weapons is far more vital. America could always replace the system in the future. It has no \"point of no return\". But Iran's path to becoming a nuclear state does, and the US president seems to be applying smart chess moves to prevent this from happening.", "tags": ["Iran", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Barack Obama", "China", "Obama administration", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "US politics", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Did the US do a deal with Russia? | Meir Javedanfar"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-11-28T01:18:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 22 people were feared dead and many more injured last night after an express train carrying hundreds of passengers from Moscow to St Petersburg derailed.Early indications from government officials suggest a bomb may have been the cause, after investigators found a three-foot crater beneath the rails.Russian Railways, the state-owned train operator, said four carriages of the luxury Nevsky Express came off the tracks near the town of Bologoye, 200 miles from Moscow, just after 9.30pm local time.In addition to those killed, more than 50 injured passengers required treatment at hospitals in St Petersburg.An officer at the emergencies ministry said: \"A one metre-diameter hole has been found next to the railway track. Witnesses heard a loud slap before the accident. All of this could point to a possible act of terrorism.\"In 2007 a terrorist attack on the same line, which is a popular route with business passengers and tourists travelling between Russia's two largest cities, derailed a train and injured 27 people. Two suspects were arrested in connection with that attack and authorities are searching for a former military officer they believe masterminded the blast.A Kremlin spokesman said President Dmitry Medvedev was immediately informed of yesterday's derailment and had ordered the FSB federal security service to investigate.According to an unnamed law enforcement official quoted by Itar-Tass news agency, a small crater under one of the rails was being investigated. \"Several versions are being considered. It might be just a pit someone dug out. Or the crater was left by an explosive device,\" the source said.Earlier Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a poor record of serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.The 14-carriage train was carrying 633 passengers and 20 railway workers, the emergencies ministry added.Russia has been beset by concerns over terrorism since the wars with Chechen separatists of the 1990s. Terrorists have repeatedly attacked Russian cities, although in recent years the number of attacks linked to Chechens has diminished. In its place violence from the republic of Ingushetia has mounted. The small, poor and turbulent area of the north Caucasus has been gripped by an intensifying Islamist insurgency.Russian forces have also been targets of sporadic attacks in lawless Dagestan, where Islamist militants and organised criminals are blamed for bomb blasts and shootings.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Train crashes"], "title": "Bomb suspected as Russia train crash kills at least 22"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-11-28T01:18:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 22 people were feared dead and many more injured last night after an express train carrying hundreds of passengers from Moscow to St Petersburg derailed.Early indications from government officials suggest a bomb may have been the cause, after investigators found a three-foot crater beneath the rails.Russian Railways, the state-owned train operator, said four carriages of the luxury Nevsky Express came off the tracks near the town of Bologoye, 200 miles from Moscow, just after 9.30pm local time.In addition to those killed, more than 50 injured passengers required treatment at hospitals in St Petersburg.An officer at the emergencies ministry said: \"A one metre-diameter hole has been found next to the railway track. Witnesses heard a loud slap before the accident. All of this could point to a possible act of terrorism.\"In 2007 a terrorist attack on the same line, which is a popular route with business passengers and tourists travelling between Russia's two largest cities, derailed a train and injured 27 people. Two suspects were arrested in connection with that attack and authorities are searching for a former military officer they believe masterminded the blast.A Kremlin spokesman said President Dmitry Medvedev was immediately informed of yesterday's derailment and had ordered the FSB federal security service to investigate.According to an unnamed law enforcement official quoted by Itar-Tass news agency, a small crater under one of the rails was being investigated. \"Several versions are being considered. It might be just a pit someone dug out. Or the crater was left by an explosive device,\" the source said.Earlier Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a poor record of serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.The 14-carriage train was carrying 633 passengers and 20 railway workers, the emergencies ministry added.Russia has been beset by concerns over terrorism since the wars with Chechen separatists of the 1990s. Terrorists have repeatedly attacked Russian cities, although in recent years the number of attacks linked to Chechens has diminished. In its place violence from the republic of Ingushetia has mounted. The small, poor and turbulent area of the north Caucasus has been gripped by an intensifying Islamist insurgency.Russian forces have also been targets of sporadic attacks in lawless Dagestan, where Islamist militants and organised criminals are blamed for bomb blasts and shootings.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Train crashes"], "title": "Bomb suspected as Russia train crash kills at least 22"},{"date": "2009-11-17T15:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The famous Chinese strategist, Sun Tzu, wrote in his book, The Art of War: \"If an enemy has alliances, the problem is grave and the enemy's position strong; if he has no alliances, the problem is minor and the enemy's position weak.\"Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is currently witnessing how the US, which he sees as the enemy for his nuclear ambitions, is working hard on building alliances, including with Russia. Khamenei is not happy.So much so that Iran recently cancelled a deal with Russia to launch its communication satellite, and turned to Italy instead. This is in addition to recent complaints from Tehran regarding delays from Russia in the delivery of the S-300 anti-aircraft system. Until recently, Tehran kept its complaints away from the cameras and behind closed doors. But now that Khamenei sees the Russians as disloyal, his regime is not shy about airing its criticism publicly.The Iranian government has decided to take the initiative and to look for a new partner to replace the Russians. Judging by the recent flurry of visits between Tehran and Ankara, it seems that Khamenei has found a willing partner in Turkey.Unlike Russia, Turkey does not have a veto in the UN security council. However, its stock in the Middle East and the Islamic world is certainly rising. Its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is being seen more and more as a credible defender of Islamic and Arab issues. Many people on the Arab street respect his leadership, as he was elected in a genuinely democratic elections. The same can not be said about Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, or King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who received their posts undemocratically.Erdogan's relations with the US and the EU also count in his favour. Although he has recently been getting closer to his Muslim and Arab regional neighbours, he has not severed his ties with the west, but is masterfully playing both sides. His relations with the US are also not based on Turkey's weaknesses. On one occasion, he resisted US pressure and even walked away from a promise of $6bn in grants and $20bn loan guarantees, because he did not find the agreement suitable. And his verbal attacks on Israel after the recent Gaza war have certainly helped his image in the region.Now that Khamenei has turned down Barack Obama's nuclear offer, he feels that the prospect of sanctions is greater. Therefore, he needs a change of strategy to deal with the expected difficult time ahead. One strategy is to turn his struggle against Obama into a new west v Islam confrontation. Judging by the recent international TV debate in Qatar, where Iran's nuclear programme was discussed in front of a select audience from the Middle East, there certainly is sympathy for his position. As far as many people in the region are concerned, Iran's nuclear programme is the only way to counter Israel's superior balance of power. Therefore this is a viable strategy. And Erdogan's rising popularity in the region, and Tehran's improving relations with his administration, will be a feasible way for Khamenei to improve his own position during the difficult times ahead. The absence of progress in the Israeli-Palestinian peace track will also help him.However, the Iranian supreme leader should be careful about how he approaches his relations with Turkey and the price he is willing to pay for it, both at home and abroad. According to the Iranian news website Khabar online, the Ahmadinejad government concluded a secret gas agreement with Turkey in late October, without informing parliament. After the news was recently leaked to the press, parliament launched a full investigation. There are now discussions about cancelling the whole deal if, as the members of parliament say, it is found to be against the country's interests. Many people suspect that Khamenei offered the deal in unfavourably good conditions to Ankara, as a means of buying its loyalty. Judging by its results it seems to have worked. However, the domestic backlash could damage the legitimacy of his regime even further.There is also the issue of the Bushehr nuclear power plant. Turkey can not complete it. Only Russia can. Khamenei turning his back on Moscow could be even more detrimental to this important and expensive project. Perhaps Khamenei could learn from the Turks, and instead of constantly changing one ally for another learn to balance his alliances.", "tags": ["Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "Iran", "Turkey", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan"], "title": "Is Iran dropping Russia for Turkey? | Meir Javedanfar"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-11-28T01:18:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 22 people were feared dead and many more injured last night after an express train carrying hundreds of passengers from Moscow to St Petersburg derailed.Early indications from government officials suggest a bomb may have been the cause, after investigators found a three-foot crater beneath the rails.Russian Railways, the state-owned train operator, said four carriages of the luxury Nevsky Express came off the tracks near the town of Bologoye, 200 miles from Moscow, just after 9.30pm local time.In addition to those killed, more than 50 injured passengers required treatment at hospitals in St Petersburg.An officer at the emergencies ministry said: \"A one metre-diameter hole has been found next to the railway track. Witnesses heard a loud slap before the accident. All of this could point to a possible act of terrorism.\"In 2007 a terrorist attack on the same line, which is a popular route with business passengers and tourists travelling between Russia's two largest cities, derailed a train and injured 27 people. Two suspects were arrested in connection with that attack and authorities are searching for a former military officer they believe masterminded the blast.A Kremlin spokesman said President Dmitry Medvedev was immediately informed of yesterday's derailment and had ordered the FSB federal security service to investigate.According to an unnamed law enforcement official quoted by Itar-Tass news agency, a small crater under one of the rails was being investigated. \"Several versions are being considered. It might be just a pit someone dug out. Or the crater was left by an explosive device,\" the source said.Earlier Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a poor record of serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.The 14-carriage train was carrying 633 passengers and 20 railway workers, the emergencies ministry added.Russia has been beset by concerns over terrorism since the wars with Chechen separatists of the 1990s. Terrorists have repeatedly attacked Russian cities, although in recent years the number of attacks linked to Chechens has diminished. In its place violence from the republic of Ingushetia has mounted. The small, poor and turbulent area of the north Caucasus has been gripped by an intensifying Islamist insurgency.Russian forces have also been targets of sporadic attacks in lawless Dagestan, where Islamist militants and organised criminals are blamed for bomb blasts and shootings.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Train crashes"], "title": "Bomb suspected as Russia train crash kills at least 22"},{"date": "2009-11-17T15:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The famous Chinese strategist, Sun Tzu, wrote in his book, The Art of War: \"If an enemy has alliances, the problem is grave and the enemy's position strong; if he has no alliances, the problem is minor and the enemy's position weak.\"Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is currently witnessing how the US, which he sees as the enemy for his nuclear ambitions, is working hard on building alliances, including with Russia. Khamenei is not happy.So much so that Iran recently cancelled a deal with Russia to launch its communication satellite, and turned to Italy instead. This is in addition to recent complaints from Tehran regarding delays from Russia in the delivery of the S-300 anti-aircraft system. Until recently, Tehran kept its complaints away from the cameras and behind closed doors. But now that Khamenei sees the Russians as disloyal, his regime is not shy about airing its criticism publicly.The Iranian government has decided to take the initiative and to look for a new partner to replace the Russians. Judging by the recent flurry of visits between Tehran and Ankara, it seems that Khamenei has found a willing partner in Turkey.Unlike Russia, Turkey does not have a veto in the UN security council. However, its stock in the Middle East and the Islamic world is certainly rising. Its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is being seen more and more as a credible defender of Islamic and Arab issues. Many people on the Arab street respect his leadership, as he was elected in a genuinely democratic elections. The same can not be said about Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, or King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who received their posts undemocratically.Erdogan's relations with the US and the EU also count in his favour. Although he has recently been getting closer to his Muslim and Arab regional neighbours, he has not severed his ties with the west, but is masterfully playing both sides. His relations with the US are also not based on Turkey's weaknesses. On one occasion, he resisted US pressure and even walked away from a promise of $6bn in grants and $20bn loan guarantees, because he did not find the agreement suitable. And his verbal attacks on Israel after the recent Gaza war have certainly helped his image in the region.Now that Khamenei has turned down Barack Obama's nuclear offer, he feels that the prospect of sanctions is greater. Therefore, he needs a change of strategy to deal with the expected difficult time ahead. One strategy is to turn his struggle against Obama into a new west v Islam confrontation. Judging by the recent international TV debate in Qatar, where Iran's nuclear programme was discussed in front of a select audience from the Middle East, there certainly is sympathy for his position. As far as many people in the region are concerned, Iran's nuclear programme is the only way to counter Israel's superior balance of power. Therefore this is a viable strategy. And Erdogan's rising popularity in the region, and Tehran's improving relations with his administration, will be a feasible way for Khamenei to improve his own position during the difficult times ahead. The absence of progress in the Israeli-Palestinian peace track will also help him.However, the Iranian supreme leader should be careful about how he approaches his relations with Turkey and the price he is willing to pay for it, both at home and abroad. According to the Iranian news website Khabar online, the Ahmadinejad government concluded a secret gas agreement with Turkey in late October, without informing parliament. After the news was recently leaked to the press, parliament launched a full investigation. There are now discussions about cancelling the whole deal if, as the members of parliament say, it is found to be against the country's interests. Many people suspect that Khamenei offered the deal in unfavourably good conditions to Ankara, as a means of buying its loyalty. Judging by its results it seems to have worked. However, the domestic backlash could damage the legitimacy of his regime even further.There is also the issue of the Bushehr nuclear power plant. Turkey can not complete it. Only Russia can. Khamenei turning his back on Moscow could be even more detrimental to this important and expensive project. Perhaps Khamenei could learn from the Turks, and instead of constantly changing one ally for another learn to balance his alliances.", "tags": ["Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "Iran", "Turkey", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan"], "title": "Is Iran dropping Russia for Turkey? | Meir Javedanfar"},{"date": "2009-11-11T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Russian president Dmitry Medvedev recently condemned the horrors of Joseph Stalin's gulags it sounded like a statement of the obvious. \"I am convinced that the memory of national tragedies is as sacred as those of victories,\" he posted on his video-blog. \"Even now, you hear it said that the huge losses were justified by some kind of higher state aim. No development of a country, none of its successes or ambitions can be reached at the price of human losses and grief.\"But what is obvious to us is ground-breaking in Russia. Medvedev spoke on 30 October, the national day of remembrance for political repression. Stalin's terror and the second world war both consumed the lives of millions. But unlike the state pageantry of the 9 May VE day parade, 30 October remains a very low key affair, which passes most Russians by. The enormous price Russians paid in \"human losses and grief\" is the great unmentionable, even if almost every family in the land lost someone to the gulags and purges. In fact, rather than condemn the crimes of the Stalinist era, a growing number of Russians are lauding their former leader.Perhaps this is a way of rationalising the victims' deaths, like the Old Bolsheviks at their show trials, desperately clutching for meaning where there was none, except the cult of Stalin. Last year Stalin came a close third in a television poll for the greatest Russian ever. For many, he is still revered as the leader who stopped the Nazis. The Red Army did ensure victory for the Allies, but that was because of the incredible bravery of Soviet soldiers, not their political commissars. Victory against Hitler may well have come faster had Stalin not wiped out most of the Red Army's officer class in the purges.But there is little room for nuance in public discourse in today's Russia about the horrors perpetrated under the old system. Indeed Vladimir Putin, now Russian prime minister, spoke for many when he said in 2004 that the break-up of the Soviet Union was \"a national tragedy on an enormous scale\". An increasing number of Russians agree with him. From our cosy western, liberal perspective this seems incredible. We are amazed. How can they think like that? But a better question is \"Why wouldn't they?\"We have just celebrated the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. I have spent most of the past 20 years living in or reporting on the former communist countries. I still remember the electric excitement when the first East Germans made through to the west and we all dreamed of a happy, united Europe that had finally exorcised its ghosts. How naive we were in our optimism, believing that the newly free countries would adopt our liberal, tolerant mores and enthusiasm for taking personal responsibility for making our own way in the world. That was the dream, but it was our comfy fantasy, not theirs. And as we imposed it on societies with very different histories and cultures it soon became a nightmare: of ultra-liberal economic shock therapy, mass unemployment, the plundering of state resources by former communist elites turned capitalist, and endemic poverty and corruption.The recent financial crisis has only highlighted the growing regional nostalgia for communism's certainties, increasingly tinged with an angry patriotism. Russians don't pine for Stalin because they miss the dawn knock on the door, the ride to Lubyanka in a sweat-stained sedan with no door handles and a bullet in the back of the neck. They miss guaranteed state provision of work, food, housing and holidays and a sense of national greatness, that their motherland, whatever it is called, remains a power to be reckoned with. Tragically, many have convinced themselves that the terrible human cost of communism's economic never-never land was a price worth paying.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Joseph Stalin", "World news", "Russia", "Communism", "Europe"], "title": "Russia gets misty-eyed about Stalin | Adam LeBor"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-11-28T01:18:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 22 people were feared dead and many more injured last night after an express train carrying hundreds of passengers from Moscow to St Petersburg derailed.Early indications from government officials suggest a bomb may have been the cause, after investigators found a three-foot crater beneath the rails.Russian Railways, the state-owned train operator, said four carriages of the luxury Nevsky Express came off the tracks near the town of Bologoye, 200 miles from Moscow, just after 9.30pm local time.In addition to those killed, more than 50 injured passengers required treatment at hospitals in St Petersburg.An officer at the emergencies ministry said: \"A one metre-diameter hole has been found next to the railway track. Witnesses heard a loud slap before the accident. All of this could point to a possible act of terrorism.\"In 2007 a terrorist attack on the same line, which is a popular route with business passengers and tourists travelling between Russia's two largest cities, derailed a train and injured 27 people. Two suspects were arrested in connection with that attack and authorities are searching for a former military officer they believe masterminded the blast.A Kremlin spokesman said President Dmitry Medvedev was immediately informed of yesterday's derailment and had ordered the FSB federal security service to investigate.According to an unnamed law enforcement official quoted by Itar-Tass news agency, a small crater under one of the rails was being investigated. \"Several versions are being considered. It might be just a pit someone dug out. Or the crater was left by an explosive device,\" the source said.Earlier Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a poor record of serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.The 14-carriage train was carrying 633 passengers and 20 railway workers, the emergencies ministry added.Russia has been beset by concerns over terrorism since the wars with Chechen separatists of the 1990s. Terrorists have repeatedly attacked Russian cities, although in recent years the number of attacks linked to Chechens has diminished. In its place violence from the republic of Ingushetia has mounted. The small, poor and turbulent area of the north Caucasus has been gripped by an intensifying Islamist insurgency.Russian forces have also been targets of sporadic attacks in lawless Dagestan, where Islamist militants and organised criminals are blamed for bomb blasts and shootings.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Train crashes"], "title": "Bomb suspected as Russia train crash kills at least 22"},{"date": "2009-11-17T15:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The famous Chinese strategist, Sun Tzu, wrote in his book, The Art of War: \"If an enemy has alliances, the problem is grave and the enemy's position strong; if he has no alliances, the problem is minor and the enemy's position weak.\"Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is currently witnessing how the US, which he sees as the enemy for his nuclear ambitions, is working hard on building alliances, including with Russia. Khamenei is not happy.So much so that Iran recently cancelled a deal with Russia to launch its communication satellite, and turned to Italy instead. This is in addition to recent complaints from Tehran regarding delays from Russia in the delivery of the S-300 anti-aircraft system. Until recently, Tehran kept its complaints away from the cameras and behind closed doors. But now that Khamenei sees the Russians as disloyal, his regime is not shy about airing its criticism publicly.The Iranian government has decided to take the initiative and to look for a new partner to replace the Russians. Judging by the recent flurry of visits between Tehran and Ankara, it seems that Khamenei has found a willing partner in Turkey.Unlike Russia, Turkey does not have a veto in the UN security council. However, its stock in the Middle East and the Islamic world is certainly rising. Its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is being seen more and more as a credible defender of Islamic and Arab issues. Many people on the Arab street respect his leadership, as he was elected in a genuinely democratic elections. The same can not be said about Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, or King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who received their posts undemocratically.Erdogan's relations with the US and the EU also count in his favour. Although he has recently been getting closer to his Muslim and Arab regional neighbours, he has not severed his ties with the west, but is masterfully playing both sides. His relations with the US are also not based on Turkey's weaknesses. On one occasion, he resisted US pressure and even walked away from a promise of $6bn in grants and $20bn loan guarantees, because he did not find the agreement suitable. And his verbal attacks on Israel after the recent Gaza war have certainly helped his image in the region.Now that Khamenei has turned down Barack Obama's nuclear offer, he feels that the prospect of sanctions is greater. Therefore, he needs a change of strategy to deal with the expected difficult time ahead. One strategy is to turn his struggle against Obama into a new west v Islam confrontation. Judging by the recent international TV debate in Qatar, where Iran's nuclear programme was discussed in front of a select audience from the Middle East, there certainly is sympathy for his position. As far as many people in the region are concerned, Iran's nuclear programme is the only way to counter Israel's superior balance of power. Therefore this is a viable strategy. And Erdogan's rising popularity in the region, and Tehran's improving relations with his administration, will be a feasible way for Khamenei to improve his own position during the difficult times ahead. The absence of progress in the Israeli-Palestinian peace track will also help him.However, the Iranian supreme leader should be careful about how he approaches his relations with Turkey and the price he is willing to pay for it, both at home and abroad. According to the Iranian news website Khabar online, the Ahmadinejad government concluded a secret gas agreement with Turkey in late October, without informing parliament. After the news was recently leaked to the press, parliament launched a full investigation. There are now discussions about cancelling the whole deal if, as the members of parliament say, it is found to be against the country's interests. Many people suspect that Khamenei offered the deal in unfavourably good conditions to Ankara, as a means of buying its loyalty. Judging by its results it seems to have worked. However, the domestic backlash could damage the legitimacy of his regime even further.There is also the issue of the Bushehr nuclear power plant. Turkey can not complete it. Only Russia can. Khamenei turning his back on Moscow could be even more detrimental to this important and expensive project. Perhaps Khamenei could learn from the Turks, and instead of constantly changing one ally for another learn to balance his alliances.", "tags": ["Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "Iran", "Turkey", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan"], "title": "Is Iran dropping Russia for Turkey? | Meir Javedanfar"},{"date": "2009-11-11T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Russian president Dmitry Medvedev recently condemned the horrors of Joseph Stalin's gulags it sounded like a statement of the obvious. \"I am convinced that the memory of national tragedies is as sacred as those of victories,\" he posted on his video-blog. \"Even now, you hear it said that the huge losses were justified by some kind of higher state aim. No development of a country, none of its successes or ambitions can be reached at the price of human losses and grief.\"But what is obvious to us is ground-breaking in Russia. Medvedev spoke on 30 October, the national day of remembrance for political repression. Stalin's terror and the second world war both consumed the lives of millions. But unlike the state pageantry of the 9 May VE day parade, 30 October remains a very low key affair, which passes most Russians by. The enormous price Russians paid in \"human losses and grief\" is the great unmentionable, even if almost every family in the land lost someone to the gulags and purges. In fact, rather than condemn the crimes of the Stalinist era, a growing number of Russians are lauding their former leader.Perhaps this is a way of rationalising the victims' deaths, like the Old Bolsheviks at their show trials, desperately clutching for meaning where there was none, except the cult of Stalin. Last year Stalin came a close third in a television poll for the greatest Russian ever. For many, he is still revered as the leader who stopped the Nazis. The Red Army did ensure victory for the Allies, but that was because of the incredible bravery of Soviet soldiers, not their political commissars. Victory against Hitler may well have come faster had Stalin not wiped out most of the Red Army's officer class in the purges.But there is little room for nuance in public discourse in today's Russia about the horrors perpetrated under the old system. Indeed Vladimir Putin, now Russian prime minister, spoke for many when he said in 2004 that the break-up of the Soviet Union was \"a national tragedy on an enormous scale\". An increasing number of Russians agree with him. From our cosy western, liberal perspective this seems incredible. We are amazed. How can they think like that? But a better question is \"Why wouldn't they?\"We have just celebrated the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. I have spent most of the past 20 years living in or reporting on the former communist countries. I still remember the electric excitement when the first East Germans made through to the west and we all dreamed of a happy, united Europe that had finally exorcised its ghosts. How naive we were in our optimism, believing that the newly free countries would adopt our liberal, tolerant mores and enthusiasm for taking personal responsibility for making our own way in the world. That was the dream, but it was our comfy fantasy, not theirs. And as we imposed it on societies with very different histories and cultures it soon became a nightmare: of ultra-liberal economic shock therapy, mass unemployment, the plundering of state resources by former communist elites turned capitalist, and endemic poverty and corruption.The recent financial crisis has only highlighted the growing regional nostalgia for communism's certainties, increasingly tinged with an angry patriotism. Russians don't pine for Stalin because they miss the dawn knock on the door, the ride to Lubyanka in a sweat-stained sedan with no door handles and a bullet in the back of the neck. They miss guaranteed state provision of work, food, housing and holidays and a sense of national greatness, that their motherland, whatever it is called, remains a power to be reckoned with. Tragically, many have convinced themselves that the terrible human cost of communism's economic never-never land was a price worth paying.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Joseph Stalin", "World news", "Russia", "Communism", "Europe"], "title": "Russia gets misty-eyed about Stalin | Adam LeBor"},{"date": "2009-11-05T09:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Reset or repair? David Miliband's much-anticipated visit to Moscow, the first of a British foreign secretary in over five years, has not produced a major breakthrough in bilateral relations between the UK and Russia.But there is a now a unique chance to do more than just mending fences. Britain has the opportunity to press the \"reset\" button and gradually turn enhanced co-operation into a strategic partnership, much like President Obama has sought to do since talks with his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, in the Kremlin in early July.In Britain's case, the main obstacle to better ties with Russia is the well-documented case of Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB agent with British citizenship who died of a massive dose of the radioactive isotope polonium 210 in London in November 2006 \u2013 an event that plunged UK-Russian relations to unprecedented depths since the end of the cold war. This was compounded by last summer's extreme tensions with Moscow over the war in Georgia's breakaway region of South Ossetia, when both the Labour government and the Conservative opposition accused the Kremlin of invading a sovereign country.But on neither account should Britain continue to limit co-operation with Russia to areas of immediate national interest such as trade, Afghanistan or Iran's nuclear ambitions. The case of Andrei Lugovoi, the prime suspect in Litvinenko's brutal murder, is deadlocked. London insists on his extradition, which is banned by Russia's constitution. Moscow offers a trial according to Russian law, a procedure that is unlikely to be either free or fair.Rightly or wrongly, any compromise will have to be political, perhaps involving a special trial in a third country where all available evidence will have to be submitted from both sides. In any case, only closer co-operation will create an atmosphere of mutual respect and trust that is indispensable to a proper solution. Meanwhile, geopolitics, like life, must continue.And now that an independent commission has established that it was the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, who launched a premeditated attack on South Ossetia and its civilians, it's time for the UK to drop the silly rhetoric about Russia's unilateral aggression and invasion. David Cameron's repeated support for Saakashvili is a serious error of judgment that does little to strengthen the foreign policy credentials of Britain's PM-in-waiting.Belatedly, Miliband is seeking to redress the UK's lopsided Ostpolitik. In his far-reaching foreign policy speech last Monday, he stressed the need to improve Anglo-Russian relations and voiced his strong support for \"hard-headed engagement across the full range of our shared interest\", citing European security, energy and trade.Miliband's talks in Moscow with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, have helped repair bilateral relations and promote concrete co-operation in these and other areas. But something more ambitious, like a genuine strategic partnership, is necessary in order to complement Obama's new era of multilateral engagement and reinvigorate the stagnating relations between the EU and Russia. More than pragmatism is at stake.Without renewed British involvement, Obama's strategy of critical engagement with Russia could unravel over Iran, North Korea or Afghanistan. By working more closely with Moscow, London could help forge a new pan-Atlantic approach vis-a-vis Tehran and Pyongyang, combining the threat of sanctions with positive incentives to suspend nuclear enrichment such as civilian energy co-operation and perhaps even conditional security guarantees.On Afghanistan, the UK should promote a stronger Russian involvement in pacifying the border regions and bringing the Muslim countries of central Asia on board. Concretely, Moscow's military and political help is crucial in securing Afghanistan's northern borders and thereby preventing the spread of terrorism and drugs. This is also in Moscow's wider interest, as soaring drug consumption is the main reason for Russia's looming HIV epidemic.Likewise, without proper British leadership, the EU will continue to be divided along the lines of \"old\" and \"new Europe\". Since Britain is far less dependent on Russian energy supplies than Germany or Italy, it could and should take a leading role in mediating between western European interests and eastern European fears about a resurgent Russia. Neither taking sides nor remaining at Europe's margins is an option for a country such as Britain which, according to Miliband, seeks to be a \"global player of weight and power\".All this will require a robust debate on the limits of the existing frameworks, institutions and organisations. These include the EU-Russia partnership and co-operation agreement, the Nato-Russia Council and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation \u2013 Moscow's alliance of convenience with China and central Asia. That is why Britain, Europe's most important military power, is uniquely positioned to discuss the Russian president's proposal for a new treaty on European security.By involving the UK in Obama's project of multilateral multi-polarity, Miliband can help shape a foreign policy legacy that the Tories won't be able to undo without causing a major rift with Washington. Critical engagement coupled with gradual steps towards a genuine partnership with Russia is in Britain's and Europe's long-term strategic interest.", "tags": ["Russia", "UK news", "World news", "Obama administration", "David Miliband", "Europe"], "title": "Britain and Russia must be partners | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-11-28T01:18:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 22 people were feared dead and many more injured last night after an express train carrying hundreds of passengers from Moscow to St Petersburg derailed.Early indications from government officials suggest a bomb may have been the cause, after investigators found a three-foot crater beneath the rails.Russian Railways, the state-owned train operator, said four carriages of the luxury Nevsky Express came off the tracks near the town of Bologoye, 200 miles from Moscow, just after 9.30pm local time.In addition to those killed, more than 50 injured passengers required treatment at hospitals in St Petersburg.An officer at the emergencies ministry said: \"A one metre-diameter hole has been found next to the railway track. Witnesses heard a loud slap before the accident. All of this could point to a possible act of terrorism.\"In 2007 a terrorist attack on the same line, which is a popular route with business passengers and tourists travelling between Russia's two largest cities, derailed a train and injured 27 people. Two suspects were arrested in connection with that attack and authorities are searching for a former military officer they believe masterminded the blast.A Kremlin spokesman said President Dmitry Medvedev was immediately informed of yesterday's derailment and had ordered the FSB federal security service to investigate.According to an unnamed law enforcement official quoted by Itar-Tass news agency, a small crater under one of the rails was being investigated. \"Several versions are being considered. It might be just a pit someone dug out. Or the crater was left by an explosive device,\" the source said.Earlier Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a poor record of serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.The 14-carriage train was carrying 633 passengers and 20 railway workers, the emergencies ministry added.Russia has been beset by concerns over terrorism since the wars with Chechen separatists of the 1990s. Terrorists have repeatedly attacked Russian cities, although in recent years the number of attacks linked to Chechens has diminished. In its place violence from the republic of Ingushetia has mounted. The small, poor and turbulent area of the north Caucasus has been gripped by an intensifying Islamist insurgency.Russian forces have also been targets of sporadic attacks in lawless Dagestan, where Islamist militants and organised criminals are blamed for bomb blasts and shootings.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Train crashes"], "title": "Bomb suspected as Russia train crash kills at least 22"},{"date": "2009-11-17T15:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The famous Chinese strategist, Sun Tzu, wrote in his book, The Art of War: \"If an enemy has alliances, the problem is grave and the enemy's position strong; if he has no alliances, the problem is minor and the enemy's position weak.\"Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is currently witnessing how the US, which he sees as the enemy for his nuclear ambitions, is working hard on building alliances, including with Russia. Khamenei is not happy.So much so that Iran recently cancelled a deal with Russia to launch its communication satellite, and turned to Italy instead. This is in addition to recent complaints from Tehran regarding delays from Russia in the delivery of the S-300 anti-aircraft system. Until recently, Tehran kept its complaints away from the cameras and behind closed doors. But now that Khamenei sees the Russians as disloyal, his regime is not shy about airing its criticism publicly.The Iranian government has decided to take the initiative and to look for a new partner to replace the Russians. Judging by the recent flurry of visits between Tehran and Ankara, it seems that Khamenei has found a willing partner in Turkey.Unlike Russia, Turkey does not have a veto in the UN security council. However, its stock in the Middle East and the Islamic world is certainly rising. Its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is being seen more and more as a credible defender of Islamic and Arab issues. Many people on the Arab street respect his leadership, as he was elected in a genuinely democratic elections. The same can not be said about Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, or King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who received their posts undemocratically.Erdogan's relations with the US and the EU also count in his favour. Although he has recently been getting closer to his Muslim and Arab regional neighbours, he has not severed his ties with the west, but is masterfully playing both sides. His relations with the US are also not based on Turkey's weaknesses. On one occasion, he resisted US pressure and even walked away from a promise of $6bn in grants and $20bn loan guarantees, because he did not find the agreement suitable. And his verbal attacks on Israel after the recent Gaza war have certainly helped his image in the region.Now that Khamenei has turned down Barack Obama's nuclear offer, he feels that the prospect of sanctions is greater. Therefore, he needs a change of strategy to deal with the expected difficult time ahead. One strategy is to turn his struggle against Obama into a new west v Islam confrontation. Judging by the recent international TV debate in Qatar, where Iran's nuclear programme was discussed in front of a select audience from the Middle East, there certainly is sympathy for his position. As far as many people in the region are concerned, Iran's nuclear programme is the only way to counter Israel's superior balance of power. Therefore this is a viable strategy. And Erdogan's rising popularity in the region, and Tehran's improving relations with his administration, will be a feasible way for Khamenei to improve his own position during the difficult times ahead. The absence of progress in the Israeli-Palestinian peace track will also help him.However, the Iranian supreme leader should be careful about how he approaches his relations with Turkey and the price he is willing to pay for it, both at home and abroad. According to the Iranian news website Khabar online, the Ahmadinejad government concluded a secret gas agreement with Turkey in late October, without informing parliament. After the news was recently leaked to the press, parliament launched a full investigation. There are now discussions about cancelling the whole deal if, as the members of parliament say, it is found to be against the country's interests. Many people suspect that Khamenei offered the deal in unfavourably good conditions to Ankara, as a means of buying its loyalty. Judging by its results it seems to have worked. However, the domestic backlash could damage the legitimacy of his regime even further.There is also the issue of the Bushehr nuclear power plant. Turkey can not complete it. Only Russia can. Khamenei turning his back on Moscow could be even more detrimental to this important and expensive project. Perhaps Khamenei could learn from the Turks, and instead of constantly changing one ally for another learn to balance his alliances.", "tags": ["Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "Iran", "Turkey", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan"], "title": "Is Iran dropping Russia for Turkey? | Meir Javedanfar"},{"date": "2009-11-11T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Russian president Dmitry Medvedev recently condemned the horrors of Joseph Stalin's gulags it sounded like a statement of the obvious. \"I am convinced that the memory of national tragedies is as sacred as those of victories,\" he posted on his video-blog. \"Even now, you hear it said that the huge losses were justified by some kind of higher state aim. No development of a country, none of its successes or ambitions can be reached at the price of human losses and grief.\"But what is obvious to us is ground-breaking in Russia. Medvedev spoke on 30 October, the national day of remembrance for political repression. Stalin's terror and the second world war both consumed the lives of millions. But unlike the state pageantry of the 9 May VE day parade, 30 October remains a very low key affair, which passes most Russians by. The enormous price Russians paid in \"human losses and grief\" is the great unmentionable, even if almost every family in the land lost someone to the gulags and purges. In fact, rather than condemn the crimes of the Stalinist era, a growing number of Russians are lauding their former leader.Perhaps this is a way of rationalising the victims' deaths, like the Old Bolsheviks at their show trials, desperately clutching for meaning where there was none, except the cult of Stalin. Last year Stalin came a close third in a television poll for the greatest Russian ever. For many, he is still revered as the leader who stopped the Nazis. The Red Army did ensure victory for the Allies, but that was because of the incredible bravery of Soviet soldiers, not their political commissars. Victory against Hitler may well have come faster had Stalin not wiped out most of the Red Army's officer class in the purges.But there is little room for nuance in public discourse in today's Russia about the horrors perpetrated under the old system. Indeed Vladimir Putin, now Russian prime minister, spoke for many when he said in 2004 that the break-up of the Soviet Union was \"a national tragedy on an enormous scale\". An increasing number of Russians agree with him. From our cosy western, liberal perspective this seems incredible. We are amazed. How can they think like that? But a better question is \"Why wouldn't they?\"We have just celebrated the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. I have spent most of the past 20 years living in or reporting on the former communist countries. I still remember the electric excitement when the first East Germans made through to the west and we all dreamed of a happy, united Europe that had finally exorcised its ghosts. How naive we were in our optimism, believing that the newly free countries would adopt our liberal, tolerant mores and enthusiasm for taking personal responsibility for making our own way in the world. That was the dream, but it was our comfy fantasy, not theirs. And as we imposed it on societies with very different histories and cultures it soon became a nightmare: of ultra-liberal economic shock therapy, mass unemployment, the plundering of state resources by former communist elites turned capitalist, and endemic poverty and corruption.The recent financial crisis has only highlighted the growing regional nostalgia for communism's certainties, increasingly tinged with an angry patriotism. Russians don't pine for Stalin because they miss the dawn knock on the door, the ride to Lubyanka in a sweat-stained sedan with no door handles and a bullet in the back of the neck. They miss guaranteed state provision of work, food, housing and holidays and a sense of national greatness, that their motherland, whatever it is called, remains a power to be reckoned with. Tragically, many have convinced themselves that the terrible human cost of communism's economic never-never land was a price worth paying.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Joseph Stalin", "World news", "Russia", "Communism", "Europe"], "title": "Russia gets misty-eyed about Stalin | Adam LeBor"},{"date": "2009-11-05T09:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Reset or repair? David Miliband's much-anticipated visit to Moscow, the first of a British foreign secretary in over five years, has not produced a major breakthrough in bilateral relations between the UK and Russia.But there is a now a unique chance to do more than just mending fences. Britain has the opportunity to press the \"reset\" button and gradually turn enhanced co-operation into a strategic partnership, much like President Obama has sought to do since talks with his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, in the Kremlin in early July.In Britain's case, the main obstacle to better ties with Russia is the well-documented case of Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB agent with British citizenship who died of a massive dose of the radioactive isotope polonium 210 in London in November 2006 \u2013 an event that plunged UK-Russian relations to unprecedented depths since the end of the cold war. This was compounded by last summer's extreme tensions with Moscow over the war in Georgia's breakaway region of South Ossetia, when both the Labour government and the Conservative opposition accused the Kremlin of invading a sovereign country.But on neither account should Britain continue to limit co-operation with Russia to areas of immediate national interest such as trade, Afghanistan or Iran's nuclear ambitions. The case of Andrei Lugovoi, the prime suspect in Litvinenko's brutal murder, is deadlocked. London insists on his extradition, which is banned by Russia's constitution. Moscow offers a trial according to Russian law, a procedure that is unlikely to be either free or fair.Rightly or wrongly, any compromise will have to be political, perhaps involving a special trial in a third country where all available evidence will have to be submitted from both sides. In any case, only closer co-operation will create an atmosphere of mutual respect and trust that is indispensable to a proper solution. Meanwhile, geopolitics, like life, must continue.And now that an independent commission has established that it was the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, who launched a premeditated attack on South Ossetia and its civilians, it's time for the UK to drop the silly rhetoric about Russia's unilateral aggression and invasion. David Cameron's repeated support for Saakashvili is a serious error of judgment that does little to strengthen the foreign policy credentials of Britain's PM-in-waiting.Belatedly, Miliband is seeking to redress the UK's lopsided Ostpolitik. In his far-reaching foreign policy speech last Monday, he stressed the need to improve Anglo-Russian relations and voiced his strong support for \"hard-headed engagement across the full range of our shared interest\", citing European security, energy and trade.Miliband's talks in Moscow with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, have helped repair bilateral relations and promote concrete co-operation in these and other areas. But something more ambitious, like a genuine strategic partnership, is necessary in order to complement Obama's new era of multilateral engagement and reinvigorate the stagnating relations between the EU and Russia. More than pragmatism is at stake.Without renewed British involvement, Obama's strategy of critical engagement with Russia could unravel over Iran, North Korea or Afghanistan. By working more closely with Moscow, London could help forge a new pan-Atlantic approach vis-a-vis Tehran and Pyongyang, combining the threat of sanctions with positive incentives to suspend nuclear enrichment such as civilian energy co-operation and perhaps even conditional security guarantees.On Afghanistan, the UK should promote a stronger Russian involvement in pacifying the border regions and bringing the Muslim countries of central Asia on board. Concretely, Moscow's military and political help is crucial in securing Afghanistan's northern borders and thereby preventing the spread of terrorism and drugs. This is also in Moscow's wider interest, as soaring drug consumption is the main reason for Russia's looming HIV epidemic.Likewise, without proper British leadership, the EU will continue to be divided along the lines of \"old\" and \"new Europe\". Since Britain is far less dependent on Russian energy supplies than Germany or Italy, it could and should take a leading role in mediating between western European interests and eastern European fears about a resurgent Russia. Neither taking sides nor remaining at Europe's margins is an option for a country such as Britain which, according to Miliband, seeks to be a \"global player of weight and power\".All this will require a robust debate on the limits of the existing frameworks, institutions and organisations. These include the EU-Russia partnership and co-operation agreement, the Nato-Russia Council and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation \u2013 Moscow's alliance of convenience with China and central Asia. That is why Britain, Europe's most important military power, is uniquely positioned to discuss the Russian president's proposal for a new treaty on European security.By involving the UK in Obama's project of multilateral multi-polarity, Miliband can help shape a foreign policy legacy that the Tories won't be able to undo without causing a major rift with Washington. Critical engagement coupled with gradual steps towards a genuine partnership with Russia is in Britain's and Europe's long-term strategic interest.", "tags": ["Russia", "UK news", "World news", "Obama administration", "David Miliband", "Europe"], "title": "Britain and Russia must be partners | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-11-03T00:05:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There is a substantial paradox in the relationship between Russia and Britain. Trade between the two nations has tripled in the last six years and Britain remains the fourth biggest foreign investor in Russia. There are also about 250,000 Russians living in the south-east of England. But among that select group of people whose job is to get on with each other \u2013 British and Russian diplomats \u2013 things could not have been worse. The dialogue at one point descended into expletives over Russia's war with Georgia. And as a result, Britain has the worst bilateral relationship of any other major EU state. It's a case of relations being good in practice and bad in theory.Somewhat late in the day, David Miliband is in Moscow to restore an official relationship in dire need of repair. His visit is the first in five years, although Gordon Brown speaks frequently to the Russian president Dmitri Medvedev. There was no attempt to evade the subject that produced the big freeze, the poisoning of the former Russian agent Alexander Litvinenko in London three years ago, and no breakthrough on Britain's demand that the prime suspect in his killing, Andrei Lugovoi, be extradited. Apart from Lugovoi's extradition, Britain continues to demand things that it knows Russia will not deliver, such as an admission that the Russian secret services were involved in Litvinenko's murder and an assurance that it will never happen again. And there is no indication that Britain is prepared to relax the visa restrictions on senior Russian officials, which diplomats say cause disproportionate irritation to the Russian\u00a0elite.These issues remain unresolved. What is new and welcome is a mutual determination not to let the consequences of this affair affect overall bilateral relations. Mr Miliband's hand has been forced by Barack Obama's decision to press the reset button. One can debate the benefits this has achieved: America traded a missile defence system that did not work for an influence on Iran that Russia did not have. But engagement has undoubtedly produced a better atmosphere from which to launch negotiations on bigger, technical and more complex issues. Talks to replace the Start 1 agreement which expires in December are difficult enough. Under a continuation of George Bush's policies, attempts to find a compromise would have been doomed.The continued impasse with Russia was an example of Britain punching well below its diplomatic weight, and it is high time that this was changed. If yesterday's visit has provided the political impetus to do this, then there should be fewer expletives in the dialogue and more communication.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Foreign policy", "International trade", "David Miliband", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Europe"], "title": "Miliband's talks: From Russia with civility"},{"date": "2009-12-18T18:18:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "They are appearing in newspapers and on posters alongside major roads in Britain. There is Barack Obama's head, on it superimposed the image of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Iran's leader. The slogan reads: \"Who poses the greatest nuclear threat?\"For many people the answer is clear \u2013 after all, Obama hasn't so far called for Israel to \"vanish from the page of time\". But for the Kremlin the Obama image is the latest step in an ambitious attempt to create a new post-Soviet global propaganda empire.Two decades after the demise of Pravda, the Kremlin's 24-hour English language TV channel, Russia Today (RT), is launching its first major advertising blitz across the UK. Dubbed North Korean TV by its detractors, the channel, available on satellite and cable TV, gives an unashamedly pro-Vladimir Putin view of the world, and says it seeks to correct the \"biased\" western view offered by the BBC and CNN.\"What we see as black and white might not be black and white. It's making people question their own stereotypes,\" Margarita Simonyan, RT's 29-year-old editor-in-chief, explains. \"We offer an alternative to the mainstream view.\"Certainly, RT's advertising campaign is provocatively contrarian \u2013 casting doubt, for example, on climate change in the week of the Copenhagen summit, and comparing a British bobby to a tattooed football hooligan.But is anyone actually going to watch it? \"I don't believe in unbiased views. Of course we take a pro-Russian position. The BBC says it openly promotes British values,\" notes Simonyan.Next year the Russian government will spend $1.4 billion (\u00a3866m) on international propaganda \u2013 more than on fighting unemployment. In January RT launches a Spanish service aimed at Latin America, a region of growing Kremlin geopolitical interest; RT already broadcasts in Arabic.The Kremlin has trebled the budgets for its main state news agencies, Ria Novosti and ITAR-Tass, despite Russia's deep economic crisis; there is a paid-for monthly supplement in the Daily Telegraph, Russia Now, and a revival of the Soviet-era radio station Voice of Russia.The Kremlin employs two major PR agencies, Ketchum and GPlus, and in London uses Portland PR. And then there are the angry bloggers \u2013 a shadowy army of Russian nationalists who are active on western newspaper websites, including the Guardian's Comment is free site. Anyone who dares to criticise Russia's leaders, or point out some of the country's deficiencies, is immediately branded a CIA spy or worse. \"They [the Kremlin] are coming to realise that information matters and that control of information internationally matters even more,\" says Evgeny Morozov, a Yahoo! fellow at Georgetown University's institute for the study of diplomacy.Morozov, who is writing a book on how authoritarian regimes are exploiting the internet, said the Kremlin was taking a more \"aggressive\" approach following last year's war in Georgia.The Russian government lost the PR battle over the conflict, at least initially, and failed to get its message across to shivering European consumers during two recent gas wars with Ukraine. \"They have realised it is only by controlling what gets printed in the international media they can advance their hard policy agenda items,\" Morozov says. Current Russian aims, he says, include thwarting Nato expansion and winning recognition for Moscow's puppet states of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Morozov takes a dim view of RT \u2013 pointing out that it has a predilection for fringe guests and discredited conspiracy theorists. \"For me it's a comedy channel. You watch it to see how badly mangled Russia's attempts at influencing foreign opinion are,\" he suggests, adding that Russia has moved from Pravda to Pravda 2.0.Insiders at RT praise the professionalism of the staff. It includes several British journalists and newsreaders. \"Generally people there are pretty talented,\" one former employee said. \"But nobody is under any illusions as to what it's all about. There is such a lack of objectivity. It's like North Korea TV.\"RT enjoys more freedom than Russia's domestic state-controlled channels. But while there is sometimes broad-based criticism of the regime, there is an unspoken understanding that you cannot criticise Putin, the ex-employee said.Other sources familiar with the Kremlin's PR strategy say that there is a lingering misunderstanding among top Russian officials as to how the western world works. \"They think it's enough to have good PR and that this is sufficient to act as a counterweight to the bad publicity caused by events in Russia,\" one said. \"Obviously it isn't.\"Asked how the Kremlin could improve its image in the west, he replied: \"They could stop beating up opposition demonstrators for a start.\"In the long run, however, the PR strategy may pay off. More and more newspapers are closing their bureaus in Moscow, and the number of foreign correspondents covering Russia is dwindling.Some observers believe that over the next decade the Kremlin's growing internet presence is likely to spill over into the western mainstream. Simonyan insists that RT is not mere government propaganda. Instead, she says, western reporters often have such \"strong opinions\" that they \"fail to see the truth\" about life in Russia. \"We don't believe we live in a country where everything is bad,\" she says, speaking from RT's gleaming offices in central Moscow. Wall screens broadcast RT, the BBC and CNN; clocks show the time in Moscow, New York and London; journalists sit in an open-plan office amid a soft hum of Russian and English.\"We live in a country where some things are getting better and some things are getting worse,\" Simonyan suggests. She is unrepentant about RT's relentlessly pro-Russian coverage of last year's Georgian war \u2013 focusing on the suffering of the South Ossetians but completely ignoring the Russian bombing of Georgian civilians.Given the bad blood between London and Moscow, and the unresolved feud over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, does she really think RT can find an audience in Britain? \"People will be surprised at how much there is in the world that they haven't been told before,\" she says.", "tags": ["Russia", "Television industry", "World news", "Media", "Europe", "Russia Today"], "title": "Russia Today launches first UK ad blitz"},{"date": "2009-12-14T00:05:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "President Barack Obama has had precious little to show for his big foreign policy idea of constructive engagement. Attempts to get Israeli and Palestinian negotiators round the table are deadlocked. Iran has rejected an imaginative offer to enrich uranium outside its borders, and is headed for another round of UN sanctions. Mr Obama opted to go in the opposite direction by committing more troops in Afghanistan. After all the soaring hopes and high-flying rhetoric of his speeches, it looks very much like business as usual. The only bright spot on the horizon is America's transformed relations with Russia.Behind the scenes, officials in Geneva are beavering away at producing a replacement for the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start\u00a01) which expired on 5 December. And yesterday we learned that they have begun similar talks about curbing cyber warfare and strengthening internet security. It remains to be seen whether Russia will support another set of UN sanctions against Iran or simply let China take the lead in watering them down. Russia has traditionally treated Iran as a reliable neighbour, although there is private anger in Moscow at Iran's rejection of the offer to enrich its uranium, a process that would have taken place in Russia. But all in all, US negotiators are getting more from talking to their Russian counterparts than they have in the days of George Bush. The reset button appears to be working.The same, alas, cannot be said for Russia's relationship with Europe, which suffers, as one diplomat put it, from \"reset envy\". The west gave a cool response to a recent Russian proposal for a new Euro-Atlantic security pact, which would restrict the use of force by signatories and create a new mechanism for the resolution of conflicts. Britain's response was to say that existing structures such as the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) work well enough, although they could be improved.Two fundamentally opposing views lie behind the exchange: Russia sees Nato as a military organisation whose eastward expansion was stopped dead in its tracks by Russia's military response in South Ossetia last year. Russia now seeks a legally binding guarantee that Nato will never admit either Georgia or Ukraine into its alliance. Why legally binding? Because it says it has been lied to too often by western leaders in the past. Although it is accepted informally that Nato membership is not on the table for either country, western diplomats refuse to put that down in words, because to do so would be to acknowledge Russia's veto over the sovereign decisions of independent countries. The result is that while modest steps can be made in meetings of the Russia-Nato council (such as agreements over the modernisation of Russian helicopters), Moscow's red lines \u2013 plans to expand Nato, the fate of the regime to control conventional armaments in Europe, and Nato's military infrastructure coming close to Russia's borders \u2013 remain as red and as active as ever.Now, as we all know, there is no such thing as a frozen conflict that remains frozen. South Ossetia proved that in abundance. So Russia's strained post-cold-war relations with Nato and an enlarged Europe remain vulnerable to another regional crisis breaking out \u2013 Nagorno\u2011Karabakh is one, Trans-Dniester another. Faced with this, it is difficult to maintain that there is no need to change the organisations that govern security in Europe. First, because there are still disputed borders in Europe and they have to be dealt with. Second, because one third of the population of Europe lies outside Nato's area. And third, because the status quo can degenerate quickly. So although there should be no Russian veto over what alliance Ukraine seeks to join, neither can Nato expand, as it has in the past, in a manner that ignores Russia's security needs. Europe indeed needs a new security architecture if it is to put the cold war behind it.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Obama administration", "Foreign policy", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Nato: A frozen conflict"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:09:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia was coming to terms last night with its most deadly fire since Soviet times after 109 people died and more than 130 were injured in a blaze at a packed provincial nightclub.Investigators ruled out terrorism as the cause of Friday's fire, but president Dmitry Medvedev said the club owners would face severe punishment and ordered a national day of mourning tomorrow with flags at half-mast. He condemned the managers, who had ignored repeated demands from authorities to change the club's interior to comply with fire safety standards, saying \"they have neither brains, nor conscience\". Emergency situations minister Sergei Shoigu told Medvedev the owners had been fined twice in the past for breaking fire safety regulations.Vladimir Putin ordered a government commission to investigate the causes of the tragedy, saying: \"It is necessary to launch a minute investigation, punish the culprits and discover the causes of this monstrous disaster.\"The fire broke out at 11.15pm at the Lame Horse nightclub in Perm, in the Urals region some 720 miles east of Moscow. Survivors said an indoor fireworks display went terribly wrong \u2013 setting light to the club's rustic wooden ceiling and igniting an inferno.\"The pyrotechnic show caused it,\" Andrei, a survivor, told the radio station Echo of Moscow. \"There was a cascade of sparks from the floor, one-and-a-half metres high. It looks as if a spark reached the ceiling. The whole ceiling is decorated with twigs.\"The ceiling burst into flames. The wiring was up there. The electricity went off instantly, smoke poured out, the lights went out and that was it. Then the crush [to escape] began.\"Almost 250 mostly young people had crowded into the club for its eighth anniversary party. Video on TV news channels showed guests watching a floor show seated around small wooden tables. As the fire broke out, many stayed put. A host then shouted in a casual tone: \"Ladies and gentlemen, guests of the club, we are on fire. Please leave.\" Party-goers stood up \u2013 at first nonchalantly \u2013 then fled in panic.\"The fire took seconds to spread,\" witness Svetlana Kuvshinova told Associated Press. \"It was like a dry haystack. There was only one way out. They nearly stampeded me.\"Another woman, who identified herself only as Olga, said: \"There was only one exit, and people starting breaking down the doors to get out. Everything was in smoke. I couldn't see anything.\" Many died in the crush or were quickly suffocated by thick black smoke as they tried to reach the single exit.Relatives rushed to the scene as news of the disaster spread. \"People were still trapped inside. Locals were running around without coats, calling out names and ringing and ringing,\" one witness reported in her blog.Investigators are trying to establish how a party could have turned into Russia's worst fire tragedy in its post-communist history. Local prosecutors arrested the club's co-owner, Anatoly Zak, and its executive director, Svetlana Yefremova, on suspicion that they had violated fire safety precautions. Officials were seeking four other suspects.Tatyana Golikova, Russia's health minister, said 90 of the 130 injured were in a severe condition, with 59 on artificial lungs. Aircraft took 19 of the seriously injured to Moscow, with others flown to St Petersburg.A Reuters photographer in Perm reported seeing groups of distraught relatives and loved ones of those feared dead as they trickled into a local morgue for recognition. Others \u2013 some weeping or smoking nervously \u2013 stared blankly at the lists of the dead.The tragedy is merely the latest to befall Russia, which has been plagued by accidents due to ageing Soviet-style infrastructure and rampant corruption. Russian fire officials are often accused of being readier to demand bribes than enforce safety rules.The incident is the second serious one to strike Russia on consecutive Fridays. Nine days ago 26 people were killed and 100 injured when their express train from Moscow to St Petersburg was derailed. Investigators claim the train was blown up and Chechen insurgents claimed responsibility.Russia's internet, however, has been awash with speculation that it was an accident rather than terrorism, caused by faulty rails or a mechanical malfunction. One report yesterday suggested that investigators are accepting that a technical error could be the cause.Despite that, the train derailment has stoked fears that Russia could face a nationwide bombing campaign. Yesterday, however, Russian officials played down any links between the train and nightclub disasters. \"There are no factors or signs pointing to a possible detonation of an explosive device,\" interior minister Rashid Nurgaliyev said.Russia records up to 18,000 fire deaths a year, several times the per-capita rate in the United States and other western countries; worldwide, nightclub fires have killed thousands of people.Officials at the emergencies ministry called the fire the worst in the nation's post-Soviet history. The previous most deadly blaze killed 63 people at a nursing home in southern Russia in March 2007.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia mourns 109 killed in nightclub blaze"},{"date": "2009-11-28T01:18:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 22 people were feared dead and many more injured last night after an express train carrying hundreds of passengers from Moscow to St Petersburg derailed.Early indications from government officials suggest a bomb may have been the cause, after investigators found a three-foot crater beneath the rails.Russian Railways, the state-owned train operator, said four carriages of the luxury Nevsky Express came off the tracks near the town of Bologoye, 200 miles from Moscow, just after 9.30pm local time.In addition to those killed, more than 50 injured passengers required treatment at hospitals in St Petersburg.An officer at the emergencies ministry said: \"A one metre-diameter hole has been found next to the railway track. Witnesses heard a loud slap before the accident. All of this could point to a possible act of terrorism.\"In 2007 a terrorist attack on the same line, which is a popular route with business passengers and tourists travelling between Russia's two largest cities, derailed a train and injured 27 people. Two suspects were arrested in connection with that attack and authorities are searching for a former military officer they believe masterminded the blast.A Kremlin spokesman said President Dmitry Medvedev was immediately informed of yesterday's derailment and had ordered the FSB federal security service to investigate.According to an unnamed law enforcement official quoted by Itar-Tass news agency, a small crater under one of the rails was being investigated. \"Several versions are being considered. It might be just a pit someone dug out. Or the crater was left by an explosive device,\" the source said.Earlier Russian news agencies had quoted transport officials as saying the cause may have been an electrical fault. Russia has a poor record of serious accidents caused by Soviet-era infrastructure.The 14-carriage train was carrying 633 passengers and 20 railway workers, the emergencies ministry added.Russia has been beset by concerns over terrorism since the wars with Chechen separatists of the 1990s. Terrorists have repeatedly attacked Russian cities, although in recent years the number of attacks linked to Chechens has diminished. In its place violence from the republic of Ingushetia has mounted. The small, poor and turbulent area of the north Caucasus has been gripped by an intensifying Islamist insurgency.Russian forces have also been targets of sporadic attacks in lawless Dagestan, where Islamist militants and organised criminals are blamed for bomb blasts and shootings.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Train crashes"], "title": "Bomb suspected as Russia train crash kills at least 22"},{"date": "2009-11-17T15:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The famous Chinese strategist, Sun Tzu, wrote in his book, The Art of War: \"If an enemy has alliances, the problem is grave and the enemy's position strong; if he has no alliances, the problem is minor and the enemy's position weak.\"Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is currently witnessing how the US, which he sees as the enemy for his nuclear ambitions, is working hard on building alliances, including with Russia. Khamenei is not happy.So much so that Iran recently cancelled a deal with Russia to launch its communication satellite, and turned to Italy instead. This is in addition to recent complaints from Tehran regarding delays from Russia in the delivery of the S-300 anti-aircraft system. Until recently, Tehran kept its complaints away from the cameras and behind closed doors. But now that Khamenei sees the Russians as disloyal, his regime is not shy about airing its criticism publicly.The Iranian government has decided to take the initiative and to look for a new partner to replace the Russians. Judging by the recent flurry of visits between Tehran and Ankara, it seems that Khamenei has found a willing partner in Turkey.Unlike Russia, Turkey does not have a veto in the UN security council. However, its stock in the Middle East and the Islamic world is certainly rising. Its prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is being seen more and more as a credible defender of Islamic and Arab issues. Many people on the Arab street respect his leadership, as he was elected in a genuinely democratic elections. The same can not be said about Egypt's president, Hosni Mubarak, or King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, who received their posts undemocratically.Erdogan's relations with the US and the EU also count in his favour. Although he has recently been getting closer to his Muslim and Arab regional neighbours, he has not severed his ties with the west, but is masterfully playing both sides. His relations with the US are also not based on Turkey's weaknesses. On one occasion, he resisted US pressure and even walked away from a promise of $6bn in grants and $20bn loan guarantees, because he did not find the agreement suitable. And his verbal attacks on Israel after the recent Gaza war have certainly helped his image in the region.Now that Khamenei has turned down Barack Obama's nuclear offer, he feels that the prospect of sanctions is greater. Therefore, he needs a change of strategy to deal with the expected difficult time ahead. One strategy is to turn his struggle against Obama into a new west v Islam confrontation. Judging by the recent international TV debate in Qatar, where Iran's nuclear programme was discussed in front of a select audience from the Middle East, there certainly is sympathy for his position. As far as many people in the region are concerned, Iran's nuclear programme is the only way to counter Israel's superior balance of power. Therefore this is a viable strategy. And Erdogan's rising popularity in the region, and Tehran's improving relations with his administration, will be a feasible way for Khamenei to improve his own position during the difficult times ahead. The absence of progress in the Israeli-Palestinian peace track will also help him.However, the Iranian supreme leader should be careful about how he approaches his relations with Turkey and the price he is willing to pay for it, both at home and abroad. According to the Iranian news website Khabar online, the Ahmadinejad government concluded a secret gas agreement with Turkey in late October, without informing parliament. After the news was recently leaked to the press, parliament launched a full investigation. There are now discussions about cancelling the whole deal if, as the members of parliament say, it is found to be against the country's interests. Many people suspect that Khamenei offered the deal in unfavourably good conditions to Ankara, as a means of buying its loyalty. Judging by its results it seems to have worked. However, the domestic backlash could damage the legitimacy of his regime even further.There is also the issue of the Bushehr nuclear power plant. Turkey can not complete it. Only Russia can. Khamenei turning his back on Moscow could be even more detrimental to this important and expensive project. Perhaps Khamenei could learn from the Turks, and instead of constantly changing one ally for another learn to balance his alliances.", "tags": ["Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "Iran", "Turkey", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan"], "title": "Is Iran dropping Russia for Turkey? | Meir Javedanfar"},{"date": "2009-11-11T07:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Russian president Dmitry Medvedev recently condemned the horrors of Joseph Stalin's gulags it sounded like a statement of the obvious. \"I am convinced that the memory of national tragedies is as sacred as those of victories,\" he posted on his video-blog. \"Even now, you hear it said that the huge losses were justified by some kind of higher state aim. No development of a country, none of its successes or ambitions can be reached at the price of human losses and grief.\"But what is obvious to us is ground-breaking in Russia. Medvedev spoke on 30 October, the national day of remembrance for political repression. Stalin's terror and the second world war both consumed the lives of millions. But unlike the state pageantry of the 9 May VE day parade, 30 October remains a very low key affair, which passes most Russians by. The enormous price Russians paid in \"human losses and grief\" is the great unmentionable, even if almost every family in the land lost someone to the gulags and purges. In fact, rather than condemn the crimes of the Stalinist era, a growing number of Russians are lauding their former leader.Perhaps this is a way of rationalising the victims' deaths, like the Old Bolsheviks at their show trials, desperately clutching for meaning where there was none, except the cult of Stalin. Last year Stalin came a close third in a television poll for the greatest Russian ever. For many, he is still revered as the leader who stopped the Nazis. The Red Army did ensure victory for the Allies, but that was because of the incredible bravery of Soviet soldiers, not their political commissars. Victory against Hitler may well have come faster had Stalin not wiped out most of the Red Army's officer class in the purges.But there is little room for nuance in public discourse in today's Russia about the horrors perpetrated under the old system. Indeed Vladimir Putin, now Russian prime minister, spoke for many when he said in 2004 that the break-up of the Soviet Union was \"a national tragedy on an enormous scale\". An increasing number of Russians agree with him. From our cosy western, liberal perspective this seems incredible. We are amazed. How can they think like that? But a better question is \"Why wouldn't they?\"We have just celebrated the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. I have spent most of the past 20 years living in or reporting on the former communist countries. I still remember the electric excitement when the first East Germans made through to the west and we all dreamed of a happy, united Europe that had finally exorcised its ghosts. How naive we were in our optimism, believing that the newly free countries would adopt our liberal, tolerant mores and enthusiasm for taking personal responsibility for making our own way in the world. That was the dream, but it was our comfy fantasy, not theirs. And as we imposed it on societies with very different histories and cultures it soon became a nightmare: of ultra-liberal economic shock therapy, mass unemployment, the plundering of state resources by former communist elites turned capitalist, and endemic poverty and corruption.The recent financial crisis has only highlighted the growing regional nostalgia for communism's certainties, increasingly tinged with an angry patriotism. Russians don't pine for Stalin because they miss the dawn knock on the door, the ride to Lubyanka in a sweat-stained sedan with no door handles and a bullet in the back of the neck. They miss guaranteed state provision of work, food, housing and holidays and a sense of national greatness, that their motherland, whatever it is called, remains a power to be reckoned with. Tragically, many have convinced themselves that the terrible human cost of communism's economic never-never land was a price worth paying.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Joseph Stalin", "World news", "Russia", "Communism", "Europe"], "title": "Russia gets misty-eyed about Stalin | Adam LeBor"},{"date": "2009-11-05T09:30:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Reset or repair? David Miliband's much-anticipated visit to Moscow, the first of a British foreign secretary in over five years, has not produced a major breakthrough in bilateral relations between the UK and Russia.But there is a now a unique chance to do more than just mending fences. Britain has the opportunity to press the \"reset\" button and gradually turn enhanced co-operation into a strategic partnership, much like President Obama has sought to do since talks with his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, in the Kremlin in early July.In Britain's case, the main obstacle to better ties with Russia is the well-documented case of Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB agent with British citizenship who died of a massive dose of the radioactive isotope polonium 210 in London in November 2006 \u2013 an event that plunged UK-Russian relations to unprecedented depths since the end of the cold war. This was compounded by last summer's extreme tensions with Moscow over the war in Georgia's breakaway region of South Ossetia, when both the Labour government and the Conservative opposition accused the Kremlin of invading a sovereign country.But on neither account should Britain continue to limit co-operation with Russia to areas of immediate national interest such as trade, Afghanistan or Iran's nuclear ambitions. The case of Andrei Lugovoi, the prime suspect in Litvinenko's brutal murder, is deadlocked. London insists on his extradition, which is banned by Russia's constitution. Moscow offers a trial according to Russian law, a procedure that is unlikely to be either free or fair.Rightly or wrongly, any compromise will have to be political, perhaps involving a special trial in a third country where all available evidence will have to be submitted from both sides. In any case, only closer co-operation will create an atmosphere of mutual respect and trust that is indispensable to a proper solution. Meanwhile, geopolitics, like life, must continue.And now that an independent commission has established that it was the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, who launched a premeditated attack on South Ossetia and its civilians, it's time for the UK to drop the silly rhetoric about Russia's unilateral aggression and invasion. David Cameron's repeated support for Saakashvili is a serious error of judgment that does little to strengthen the foreign policy credentials of Britain's PM-in-waiting.Belatedly, Miliband is seeking to redress the UK's lopsided Ostpolitik. In his far-reaching foreign policy speech last Monday, he stressed the need to improve Anglo-Russian relations and voiced his strong support for \"hard-headed engagement across the full range of our shared interest\", citing European security, energy and trade.Miliband's talks in Moscow with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, have helped repair bilateral relations and promote concrete co-operation in these and other areas. But something more ambitious, like a genuine strategic partnership, is necessary in order to complement Obama's new era of multilateral engagement and reinvigorate the stagnating relations between the EU and Russia. More than pragmatism is at stake.Without renewed British involvement, Obama's strategy of critical engagement with Russia could unravel over Iran, North Korea or Afghanistan. By working more closely with Moscow, London could help forge a new pan-Atlantic approach vis-a-vis Tehran and Pyongyang, combining the threat of sanctions with positive incentives to suspend nuclear enrichment such as civilian energy co-operation and perhaps even conditional security guarantees.On Afghanistan, the UK should promote a stronger Russian involvement in pacifying the border regions and bringing the Muslim countries of central Asia on board. Concretely, Moscow's military and political help is crucial in securing Afghanistan's northern borders and thereby preventing the spread of terrorism and drugs. This is also in Moscow's wider interest, as soaring drug consumption is the main reason for Russia's looming HIV epidemic.Likewise, without proper British leadership, the EU will continue to be divided along the lines of \"old\" and \"new Europe\". Since Britain is far less dependent on Russian energy supplies than Germany or Italy, it could and should take a leading role in mediating between western European interests and eastern European fears about a resurgent Russia. Neither taking sides nor remaining at Europe's margins is an option for a country such as Britain which, according to Miliband, seeks to be a \"global player of weight and power\".All this will require a robust debate on the limits of the existing frameworks, institutions and organisations. These include the EU-Russia partnership and co-operation agreement, the Nato-Russia Council and the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation \u2013 Moscow's alliance of convenience with China and central Asia. That is why Britain, Europe's most important military power, is uniquely positioned to discuss the Russian president's proposal for a new treaty on European security.By involving the UK in Obama's project of multilateral multi-polarity, Miliband can help shape a foreign policy legacy that the Tories won't be able to undo without causing a major rift with Washington. Critical engagement coupled with gradual steps towards a genuine partnership with Russia is in Britain's and Europe's long-term strategic interest.", "tags": ["Russia", "UK news", "World news", "Obama administration", "David Miliband", "Europe"], "title": "Britain and Russia must be partners | Adrian Pabst"},{"date": "2009-11-03T00:05:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There is a substantial paradox in the relationship between Russia and Britain. Trade between the two nations has tripled in the last six years and Britain remains the fourth biggest foreign investor in Russia. There are also about 250,000 Russians living in the south-east of England. But among that select group of people whose job is to get on with each other \u2013 British and Russian diplomats \u2013 things could not have been worse. The dialogue at one point descended into expletives over Russia's war with Georgia. And as a result, Britain has the worst bilateral relationship of any other major EU state. It's a case of relations being good in practice and bad in theory.Somewhat late in the day, David Miliband is in Moscow to restore an official relationship in dire need of repair. His visit is the first in five years, although Gordon Brown speaks frequently to the Russian president Dmitri Medvedev. There was no attempt to evade the subject that produced the big freeze, the poisoning of the former Russian agent Alexander Litvinenko in London three years ago, and no breakthrough on Britain's demand that the prime suspect in his killing, Andrei Lugovoi, be extradited. Apart from Lugovoi's extradition, Britain continues to demand things that it knows Russia will not deliver, such as an admission that the Russian secret services were involved in Litvinenko's murder and an assurance that it will never happen again. And there is no indication that Britain is prepared to relax the visa restrictions on senior Russian officials, which diplomats say cause disproportionate irritation to the Russian\u00a0elite.These issues remain unresolved. What is new and welcome is a mutual determination not to let the consequences of this affair affect overall bilateral relations. Mr Miliband's hand has been forced by Barack Obama's decision to press the reset button. One can debate the benefits this has achieved: America traded a missile defence system that did not work for an influence on Iran that Russia did not have. But engagement has undoubtedly produced a better atmosphere from which to launch negotiations on bigger, technical and more complex issues. Talks to replace the Start 1 agreement which expires in December are difficult enough. Under a continuation of George Bush's policies, attempts to find a compromise would have been doomed.The continued impasse with Russia was an example of Britain punching well below its diplomatic weight, and it is high time that this was changed. If yesterday's visit has provided the political impetus to do this, then there should be fewer expletives in the dialogue and more communication.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Foreign policy", "International trade", "David Miliband", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Europe"], "title": "Miliband's talks: From Russia with civility"},{"date": "2009-10-10T23:07:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Amid increasing fears of an Israeli strike against Iran, America will this week press Russia to support a threat of tougher sanctions against Tehran in an attempt to avert possible military action.Secretary of State Hillary Clinton will meet Russian president Dmitry Medvedev and his foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, on Tuesday with worries about Iran's nuclear ambitions at the top of the agenda.Clinton, who began a five-day European trip yesterday, is expected to push Russia to support a move for stronger sanctions in the wake of recent revelations about a secret uranium enrichment site near the Iranian city of Qom. Washington wants Russia to back the sanctions if Iran does not agree to halt its enrichment activities.American officials also believe that tough sanctions supported by Iran's traditional allies, China and Russia, could go some way to mollifying Israeli hawks who have been making increasingly militant noises about Iran's nuclear ambitions.But there is no guarantee that Clinton's diplomatic push will actually get Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment programme by the end of the year, as Washington has demanded. Russia has been a hard sell in putting sanctions in place against Iran, and officials are sceptical that Moscow will fully support the latest moves. There are fears that Iran's agreement to let UN inspectors into the Qom site, and its reopening of talks between Iran's chief nuclear negotiator and diplomats from the US, Russia, China, Britain, France and Germany may have persuaded the Russians thatno further steps were needed.In the face of Iran's apparent determination to secretly develop its nuclear facilities, Russia has recently struck a harder tone, although it has still not explicitly backed new sanctions. Last week, in a pre-recorded television interview, Medvedev said that Russia did not want to see any more nations develop nuclear weapons.\"The expansion of the 'nuclear club' is very much not in our interests,\" he said. However, he failed to address the sanctions issue directly.One factor aiding Clinton might be Russia's reaction to Barack Obama's decision to abandon plans left over from the George W Bush era to base a missile defence system in eastern Europe. The plans were intensely disliked by Moscow. Although scrapping them brought criticism from some European nations and US conservatives, the move was welcomed in Moscow and could signal a thaw in relations and perhaps ease co-operation on thorny issues such as Iran. Other matters for Clinton and Medvedev to discuss will include arms control and the worsening situation in Afghanistan and North Korea.Last week, tensions over Iran rose further after former Israeli deputy defence secretary Ephraim Sneh said Israel could attack Iran by Christmas if further sanctions were not introduced. The comments were the latest in a series of statements by Sneh that have struck an increasingly militant tone. In mid-September, he told the Dow Jones newswire: \"If they, by weakness and by stupidity, allow the bomb, we have no choice. We can't allow them to continue. It's urgent.\"Now Sneh's most recent comments have seen Iran complain last week to the United Nation's general secretary Ban Ki Moon. Mohammed Khazaee, Iran's ambassador to the UN, wrote to Moon, saying that such words were \"irresponsible\" in international diplomacy. \"There is no explanation for Israel's continuing threats against Tehran,\" he wrote.However, some Iranian officials have responded in kind. At the end of last week, a senior Iranian commander in the Revolutionary Guard threatened an instant and devastating response to any Israeli attack. Mojtaba Zolnour, the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's representative in the Guard, said it would attack Israel with missiles if a US or Israeli missile landed in Iran. \"Should a single American or Zionist missile land in our country, before the dust settles, Iranian missiles will blow up the heart of Israel,\" Zolnour told the state IRNA news agency.\u2022 This article was amended on Thursday 15 October 2009. We inadvertently described Ephraim Sneh as Israel's \"deputy defence secretary\" but he ceased to be deputy minister of defence in June 2007. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Hillary Clinton", "Israel", "Iran", "Russia", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US charm offensive aims to persuade Israel not to attack Iran over nuclear weapons development"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-11T10:49:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There's an old Westminster gag about Labour creating more tsars than Russia. It was never particularly funny, but at least it was recognisable as a joke. Until today \u2013 when new figures have been published showing that it is actually true.The evidence comes from the Commons public administration committee, which has published a report called Goats and Tsars about the appointment of people from outside parliament to ministerial or other government posts.In the appendix at the end (on page 79) it includes a memo from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who was asked to identify all the tsars appointed by the government. He named 25, not including the health tsars. A separate memo lists another 15 health tsars working as national clinical advisers in the NHS. That makes 40.My knowledge of Russian history is very limited. But the internet is a wonderful thing and this morning I've learned that the title tsar was used by Russian rulers from 1546 until 1917. According to this list, there were 26 of them.Tsars are a new development in British politics. According to the report, the term was first used in relation to the NHS appointments and the first tsar appointed in a wider political context was Keith Hellawell, who became drug tsar in 1998.The committee isn't impressed.At present there is little transparency concerning the informal and ad hoc appointments made by government to lead on, review or promote particular policies. Job titles are often uninformative, appointment processes informal and the work undertaken opaque and not clearly linked to results. The allegation that some of these posts might have been created for the sake of a press notice may be unfair, but it is difficult to refute without greater transparency.The committee says that the government should produce a regular list of tsars working in Whitehall and that, whenever a minister appoints a new one, the relevant department should spell out exactly what his or her responsibilities will be.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Government creates more tsars than Russia | Andrew Sparrow"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-11T10:49:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There's an old Westminster gag about Labour creating more tsars than Russia. It was never particularly funny, but at least it was recognisable as a joke. Until today \u2013 when new figures have been published showing that it is actually true.The evidence comes from the Commons public administration committee, which has published a report called Goats and Tsars about the appointment of people from outside parliament to ministerial or other government posts.In the appendix at the end (on page 79) it includes a memo from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who was asked to identify all the tsars appointed by the government. He named 25, not including the health tsars. A separate memo lists another 15 health tsars working as national clinical advisers in the NHS. That makes 40.My knowledge of Russian history is very limited. But the internet is a wonderful thing and this morning I've learned that the title tsar was used by Russian rulers from 1546 until 1917. According to this list, there were 26 of them.Tsars are a new development in British politics. According to the report, the term was first used in relation to the NHS appointments and the first tsar appointed in a wider political context was Keith Hellawell, who became drug tsar in 1998.The committee isn't impressed.At present there is little transparency concerning the informal and ad hoc appointments made by government to lead on, review or promote particular policies. Job titles are often uninformative, appointment processes informal and the work undertaken opaque and not clearly linked to results. The allegation that some of these posts might have been created for the sake of a press notice may be unfair, but it is difficult to refute without greater transparency.The committee says that the government should produce a regular list of tsars working in Whitehall and that, whenever a minister appoints a new one, the relevant department should spell out exactly what his or her responsibilities will be.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Government creates more tsars than Russia | Andrew Sparrow"},{"date": "2010-03-05T17:43:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has promised a dramatic improvement in relations with Russia during his first official visit to Moscow.Speaking after a meeting with his counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, Yanukovych said he would perform a sharp U-turn on the polices pursued by his predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, whose pro-west and pro-Nato stance infuriated the Kremlin.Welcoming him warmly, Medvedev said Yanukovych's election victory meant that the \"brotherly ties\" between Ukraine and Russia could now be restored. He added that the venomous stand-off between Moscow and Kiev following the 2004 Orange Revolution \u2013 a \"dark streak\", as Medvedev put it \u2013 was now over.Yanukovych's trip followed a visit on Monday to Brussels. He appears to be engaged in a delicate diplomatic balancing act between Ukraine's giant western and eastern neighbours. Asked why he had gone to see the EU first, Yanukovych declared simply that the Europeans had invited him earlier.Ukraine's new president was sworn in last week after narrowly defeating Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's prime minister, who leaned towards Europe and the west. Her Orange parliamentary coalition collapsed on Tuesday and Yanukovych is attempting to form his own government.Grinning broadly, and speaking in his native Russian, Yanukovych respectfully referred to Medevdev as \"Dmitry Anatolyevich\" during a joint press conference held in the Kremlin. At times he came across as a nervous suitor. \"I've only been in the job [of president] a few days. I'm still learning,\" he joked anxiously.Yanukovych also met Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister. Putin is said to regard Yanukovych \u2013 a former convict \u2013 as a provincial thug and serial loser, following Yanukovych's bungled attempt to fix the vote during Ukraine's 2004 presidential election. In 2004 Putin was captured wrinkling his face in disgust when Yanukovych offered him a sweet.The one-day meeting yielded few concrete results. But the outlines of a new Russia-friendly Ukraine were clear \u2013 with Yanukovych indicating he is ready to renew the lease on Russia's Black Sea fleet, which expires in 2017, whereas Yushchenko had pledged to evict the Russians from their base in the historic Crimean port of Sevastopol.He gave assurances that Ukraine was not contemplating joining Nato, a step that Russia regards as unacceptable. Asked whether Nato membership was still on the cards, Yanukovych said Ukraine would work with Nato but not join it. \"Ukraine is a non-bloc European country,\" he said.The two sides discussed Ukraine's large gas bill. Yanukovych promised during his election campaign to renegotiate a controversial gas deal signed by Putin and Tymoshenko last year. He wants to reduce the price paid by Kiev from $305 to $205-$210 per thousand cubic metres. It remains unclear how much the Kremlin is willing to co-operate.Yanukovych made clear that he shares the Kremlin's fiercely patriotic view of Soviet history, announcing that Ukrainian and Russian veterans would hold joint celebrations in May to mark the 65th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. Medvedev said Yanukovych had come up with the idea of a special train that could bring old soldiers together.Andrew Wilson, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said Yanukovych was trying to balance Ukraine's interests with Europe and Russia. \"Yanukovych is dealing with the new geography of the region. The US may not have changed its politics but it has downgraded Europe in its priorities. At the same time he wants a better personal relationship with Russia's leaders and with Putin. Things have been seriously bad since the incident in 2004 when Yanukovych offered Putin a sweet. \"Under Yushchenko, relations between Moscow and Kiev grew so acrimonious that Medvedev memorably described Yushchenko as a \"political corpse\". He refused last year to send an ambassador to Ukraine until Yushchenko, a harsh critic of the Kremlin who sought to leave Russia's sphere of influence, was out of office.\"Even when our country's ambassador was not in Kiev I would wake up thinking about Ukraine,\" Medvedev said. \"Now we have fundamentally different possibilities ... We will need to reanimate Russian-Ukrainian relations.\"Viktor Yanukovych's legendary gaffes have earned him comparison with the patron saint of the foot-in-mouth-prone: George Bush.Campaigning ahead of last month's Ukraine election, Yanukovych described the Russian playwright Anton Chekhov as a \"Ukrainian poet.\". He referred to Anna Akhmatova \u2013 who was a poet \u2013 as Anna Akhmetov. He appeared to be confusing her with Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and Yanukovych's billionaire godfather.During his first foreign trip to Brussels on Monday, Yanukovych came up with a new word for Kosovo \u2013 Montenegro. He also muddled up North Ossetia \u2013 which is part of Russia \u2013 with South Ossetia, the Russian-backed puppet region at the centre of the 2008 Russian-Georgian war.Supporters point out that Yanukovych \u2013 a native Russian speaker \u2013 had little formal education and has at least taken the trouble to learn Ukrainian, a language that many Ukrainians cannot speak.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Viktor Yanukovych promises Ukraine will embrace Russia"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-11T10:49:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There's an old Westminster gag about Labour creating more tsars than Russia. It was never particularly funny, but at least it was recognisable as a joke. Until today \u2013 when new figures have been published showing that it is actually true.The evidence comes from the Commons public administration committee, which has published a report called Goats and Tsars about the appointment of people from outside parliament to ministerial or other government posts.In the appendix at the end (on page 79) it includes a memo from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who was asked to identify all the tsars appointed by the government. He named 25, not including the health tsars. A separate memo lists another 15 health tsars working as national clinical advisers in the NHS. That makes 40.My knowledge of Russian history is very limited. But the internet is a wonderful thing and this morning I've learned that the title tsar was used by Russian rulers from 1546 until 1917. According to this list, there were 26 of them.Tsars are a new development in British politics. According to the report, the term was first used in relation to the NHS appointments and the first tsar appointed in a wider political context was Keith Hellawell, who became drug tsar in 1998.The committee isn't impressed.At present there is little transparency concerning the informal and ad hoc appointments made by government to lead on, review or promote particular policies. Job titles are often uninformative, appointment processes informal and the work undertaken opaque and not clearly linked to results. The allegation that some of these posts might have been created for the sake of a press notice may be unfair, but it is difficult to refute without greater transparency.The committee says that the government should produce a regular list of tsars working in Whitehall and that, whenever a minister appoints a new one, the relevant department should spell out exactly what his or her responsibilities will be.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Government creates more tsars than Russia | Andrew Sparrow"},{"date": "2010-03-05T17:43:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has promised a dramatic improvement in relations with Russia during his first official visit to Moscow.Speaking after a meeting with his counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, Yanukovych said he would perform a sharp U-turn on the polices pursued by his predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, whose pro-west and pro-Nato stance infuriated the Kremlin.Welcoming him warmly, Medvedev said Yanukovych's election victory meant that the \"brotherly ties\" between Ukraine and Russia could now be restored. He added that the venomous stand-off between Moscow and Kiev following the 2004 Orange Revolution \u2013 a \"dark streak\", as Medvedev put it \u2013 was now over.Yanukovych's trip followed a visit on Monday to Brussels. He appears to be engaged in a delicate diplomatic balancing act between Ukraine's giant western and eastern neighbours. Asked why he had gone to see the EU first, Yanukovych declared simply that the Europeans had invited him earlier.Ukraine's new president was sworn in last week after narrowly defeating Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's prime minister, who leaned towards Europe and the west. Her Orange parliamentary coalition collapsed on Tuesday and Yanukovych is attempting to form his own government.Grinning broadly, and speaking in his native Russian, Yanukovych respectfully referred to Medevdev as \"Dmitry Anatolyevich\" during a joint press conference held in the Kremlin. At times he came across as a nervous suitor. \"I've only been in the job [of president] a few days. I'm still learning,\" he joked anxiously.Yanukovych also met Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister. Putin is said to regard Yanukovych \u2013 a former convict \u2013 as a provincial thug and serial loser, following Yanukovych's bungled attempt to fix the vote during Ukraine's 2004 presidential election. In 2004 Putin was captured wrinkling his face in disgust when Yanukovych offered him a sweet.The one-day meeting yielded few concrete results. But the outlines of a new Russia-friendly Ukraine were clear \u2013 with Yanukovych indicating he is ready to renew the lease on Russia's Black Sea fleet, which expires in 2017, whereas Yushchenko had pledged to evict the Russians from their base in the historic Crimean port of Sevastopol.He gave assurances that Ukraine was not contemplating joining Nato, a step that Russia regards as unacceptable. Asked whether Nato membership was still on the cards, Yanukovych said Ukraine would work with Nato but not join it. \"Ukraine is a non-bloc European country,\" he said.The two sides discussed Ukraine's large gas bill. Yanukovych promised during his election campaign to renegotiate a controversial gas deal signed by Putin and Tymoshenko last year. He wants to reduce the price paid by Kiev from $305 to $205-$210 per thousand cubic metres. It remains unclear how much the Kremlin is willing to co-operate.Yanukovych made clear that he shares the Kremlin's fiercely patriotic view of Soviet history, announcing that Ukrainian and Russian veterans would hold joint celebrations in May to mark the 65th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. Medvedev said Yanukovych had come up with the idea of a special train that could bring old soldiers together.Andrew Wilson, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said Yanukovych was trying to balance Ukraine's interests with Europe and Russia. \"Yanukovych is dealing with the new geography of the region. The US may not have changed its politics but it has downgraded Europe in its priorities. At the same time he wants a better personal relationship with Russia's leaders and with Putin. Things have been seriously bad since the incident in 2004 when Yanukovych offered Putin a sweet. \"Under Yushchenko, relations between Moscow and Kiev grew so acrimonious that Medvedev memorably described Yushchenko as a \"political corpse\". He refused last year to send an ambassador to Ukraine until Yushchenko, a harsh critic of the Kremlin who sought to leave Russia's sphere of influence, was out of office.\"Even when our country's ambassador was not in Kiev I would wake up thinking about Ukraine,\" Medvedev said. \"Now we have fundamentally different possibilities ... We will need to reanimate Russian-Ukrainian relations.\"Viktor Yanukovych's legendary gaffes have earned him comparison with the patron saint of the foot-in-mouth-prone: George Bush.Campaigning ahead of last month's Ukraine election, Yanukovych described the Russian playwright Anton Chekhov as a \"Ukrainian poet.\". He referred to Anna Akhmatova \u2013 who was a poet \u2013 as Anna Akhmetov. He appeared to be confusing her with Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and Yanukovych's billionaire godfather.During his first foreign trip to Brussels on Monday, Yanukovych came up with a new word for Kosovo \u2013 Montenegro. He also muddled up North Ossetia \u2013 which is part of Russia \u2013 with South Ossetia, the Russian-backed puppet region at the centre of the 2008 Russian-Georgian war.Supporters point out that Yanukovych \u2013 a native Russian speaker \u2013 had little formal education and has at least taken the trouble to learn Ukrainian, a language that many Ukrainians cannot speak.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Viktor Yanukovych promises Ukraine will embrace Russia"},{"date": "2010-02-01T08:19:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Negotiations over a new arms control treaty between the US and Russia resumed in Geneva today amid growing criticism of Barack Obama's conciliatory policy towards the Kremlin from human rights groups and a newly emboldened Republican party.Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, indicated last week that a successor agreement to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start 1) could be signed within weeks. The 1972 treaty expired on 5 December, leaving Moscow and Washington without an operational arms control regime for the first time in 40 years.A spokesman for the US mission in Geneva, Michael Parmly, said today that the delegation hoped \"the remaining negotiations can be concluded quickly,\" but declined to say when that might be.But even if the sides manage to resolve their outstanding differences over verification and missile defence, serious doubts remain about Obama's ability to ratify any new treaty ahead of November's mid-term US elections. Analysts say that if Obama fails to persuade the Senate to back a deal, the current arms control \"vacuum\" may continue.Sixty-seven votes are needed in the Senate to ratify the treaty, and the Republican Scott Brown's victory in the Massachusetts Senate race last week compounded Obama's difficulties, emboldening the opposition and creating anxiety among centrist Democrats. When the treaty comes up for consideration, Republicans will be inclined to portray Obama as making concessions on defence.\"They don't want President Obama to score a major policy victory that would lend heft to his credentials as a great American statesman in the run-up to the midterm elections,\" said a US official familiar with the treaty talks. \"They are going to use this as a political football and play this in a political way rather than out of consideration for its merits.\"A year after his inauguration, critics claim Obama has failed to realise many of his major foreign policy goals, including on Iran and the Middle East, with his \"reset\" strategy towards Russia yet to produce tangible results. One of Obama's key aspirations was to improve relations with Moscow in return for closer co-operation on Iran and its nuclear programme and the war in Afghanistan.So far, however, the Kremlin has made no significant concessions towards the Obama White House, either over a sanctions regime against Tehran or anything else. Obama's decision to dump the Bush-era missile defence shield in central Europe last summer \u2013 an issue that had enraged Vladimir Putin, Russia's hawkish prime minister \u2013 failed to elicit any reciprocal gesture from the Russian side.Obama's tactical silence on human rights issues in Russia and other repressive former Soviet republics, meanwhile, has infuriated human rights defenders. During a visit to Moscow last December, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, made clear that human rights issues would now be discussed \"behind closed doors\" with the Russian government, prompting accusations that Obama had relegated values to third-tier status.\"I don't think keeping silent is the way to go. At this stage, I would express disappointment with the Obama-Clinton approach,\" Allison Gill, the director of the Russia office of Human Rights Watch, said. \"I don't think there is any evidence that pragmatic silence has proved particularly effective, certainly in promoting human rights.\"Russian human rights defenders concur. \"A more definite approach from the Americans wouldn't hurt civil society in Russia. You have to speak the truth,\" Lev Ponomarev, a prominent activist who has met Clinton, said. Ponomarev complained Clinton had not offered any criticism of the situation in Russia, where journalists are routinely murdered, and said the secretary of state's short encounter with civil society representatives had been a \"protocol\" one.Some believe that in its eagerness to improve relations with Moscow, the Obama administration made key mistakes, in particular in its erroneously \"optimistic\" assessment of Medvedev. During his visit to Moscow last July, Obama held long face-to-face negotiations with Medvedev while snubbing Putin, in an unsubtle attempt to boost Medvedev's domestic prestige.Since then, however, it has become clear that Medvedev is not the liberal reformer that some had hoped but part of Russia's managed democracy construct, in which elections are stage-managed and dissent swiftly squashed. Few are in any doubt that it is Putin who continues to run the country, and who remains the supreme arbiter of both domestic and foreign affairs.\"I think the administration had the feeling that more had changed in the Russian political scene with the arrival of Medvedev than was actually the case,\" Sam Greene, deputy director of the Moscow Carnegie Centre, said. Asked whether the Obama administration had been naive in its assessment, he said: \"I think they were very quickly disavowed of the notion [that Medvedev was a liberal] \u2013 during the summit itself, in fact.\"A new Start treaty would face an uphill battle to win Senate approval, he added. \"The reality is that in a hard-fought election, anything can become hostage with politics. I think the state department and the administration will be wary of risking a treaty as important as this in a political season as fraught as we are likely to see towards the summer and fall.\" He went on: \"If they don't get a treaty soon, it may have to wait until next year to ratify.\"James Collins, former US ambassador to Russia under Bill Clinton, said ratification entirely depended on whether it was consistent with the US military's nuclear posture review, currently under way, and the military's and the intelligence community's approval of its verification mechanisms.He said the time was ripe for the eventual treaty language to be judged on its own merits, with few available political \"cheap shots\".\"It has been negotiated to serve American interests. Nobody was playing politics or games with it. We didn't have artificial deadlines, and it wasn't set against Obama's Nobel prize,\" Collins said.Over the last month, the Republicans have considerably stepped up their attack on Obama's Russia strategy, directing their fire in particular at Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue. Surkov is synonymous with the rollback of democracy during the Putin era. He visited Washington last week as co-chair of a new US-Russian intergovernmental civil society working group set up by Obama and Medvedev.On 11 December, more than 60 Republican members of Congress signed a letter urging Obama to boycott the meeting until Surkov, Medvedev's deputy chief of staff, was replaced by \"someone who has not been involved in establishing oppressive and undemocratic policies\". They also expressed concern over Russia's human rights record.In an interview with Radio Liberty, Michael McFaul, special assistant to Obama and senior director for Russian affairs at the National Security Council, played down the \"controversy\" over Surkov.He said it was better to engage with Russia, even if there were \"disagreements\", than to \"sit in our cubbyholes and not have any real connectivity with those that we think we are disagreeing with\".Some believe Obama has brought about a marked improvement in US-Russian relations \u2013 at least in tone. \"There have been positive steps. It isn't a shouting match any more,\" Sergei Rogov, the director of Moscow's Insitute for US and Canada Studies, said. Rogov acknowledged there were disagreements \u2013 over Russia's claim, for example, it is entitled to a sphere of influence in post-Soviet countries. He also noted that trade and investment were \"going down\".The key test, he said, was whether Obama could deliver a new Start treaty. \"If we sign the treaty, there may be more progress in other areas; if we don't sign, we will have a repetition of the old story \u2013 a nice declaration but no practical achievements.\"Others said Obama's failure to reap any dividends from his rapprochement with Russia was due to a more profound conceptual weakness: his failure to define America's role in the 21st century. \"The problem is Obama's foreign policy. He is trying to solve complex problems without having a clear strategy of how to position the US in the new world,\" Fyodor Lukyanov, editor-in-chief of Russian in Global Affairs, said.Start 1 was approved in 1992 on a 93-6 vote. Despite the acrimonious climate in Washington, some analysts hold out hope the new treaty will not get bogged down in domestic electoral politics, and will be judged on its own merits.\"The concerns about US defence go beyond the party-line divisions,\" said Ariel Cohen, a Russia and Eurasia analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation. \"In the past, both Republicans and Democrats were those who approved. And in things like nuclear weapons, responsible politicians do not trifle.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US-Russia arms control treaty talks resume"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-11T10:49:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There's an old Westminster gag about Labour creating more tsars than Russia. It was never particularly funny, but at least it was recognisable as a joke. Until today \u2013 when new figures have been published showing that it is actually true.The evidence comes from the Commons public administration committee, which has published a report called Goats and Tsars about the appointment of people from outside parliament to ministerial or other government posts.In the appendix at the end (on page 79) it includes a memo from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who was asked to identify all the tsars appointed by the government. He named 25, not including the health tsars. A separate memo lists another 15 health tsars working as national clinical advisers in the NHS. That makes 40.My knowledge of Russian history is very limited. But the internet is a wonderful thing and this morning I've learned that the title tsar was used by Russian rulers from 1546 until 1917. According to this list, there were 26 of them.Tsars are a new development in British politics. According to the report, the term was first used in relation to the NHS appointments and the first tsar appointed in a wider political context was Keith Hellawell, who became drug tsar in 1998.The committee isn't impressed.At present there is little transparency concerning the informal and ad hoc appointments made by government to lead on, review or promote particular policies. Job titles are often uninformative, appointment processes informal and the work undertaken opaque and not clearly linked to results. The allegation that some of these posts might have been created for the sake of a press notice may be unfair, but it is difficult to refute without greater transparency.The committee says that the government should produce a regular list of tsars working in Whitehall and that, whenever a minister appoints a new one, the relevant department should spell out exactly what his or her responsibilities will be.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Government creates more tsars than Russia | Andrew Sparrow"},{"date": "2010-03-05T17:43:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has promised a dramatic improvement in relations with Russia during his first official visit to Moscow.Speaking after a meeting with his counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, Yanukovych said he would perform a sharp U-turn on the polices pursued by his predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, whose pro-west and pro-Nato stance infuriated the Kremlin.Welcoming him warmly, Medvedev said Yanukovych's election victory meant that the \"brotherly ties\" between Ukraine and Russia could now be restored. He added that the venomous stand-off between Moscow and Kiev following the 2004 Orange Revolution \u2013 a \"dark streak\", as Medvedev put it \u2013 was now over.Yanukovych's trip followed a visit on Monday to Brussels. He appears to be engaged in a delicate diplomatic balancing act between Ukraine's giant western and eastern neighbours. Asked why he had gone to see the EU first, Yanukovych declared simply that the Europeans had invited him earlier.Ukraine's new president was sworn in last week after narrowly defeating Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's prime minister, who leaned towards Europe and the west. Her Orange parliamentary coalition collapsed on Tuesday and Yanukovych is attempting to form his own government.Grinning broadly, and speaking in his native Russian, Yanukovych respectfully referred to Medevdev as \"Dmitry Anatolyevich\" during a joint press conference held in the Kremlin. At times he came across as a nervous suitor. \"I've only been in the job [of president] a few days. I'm still learning,\" he joked anxiously.Yanukovych also met Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister. Putin is said to regard Yanukovych \u2013 a former convict \u2013 as a provincial thug and serial loser, following Yanukovych's bungled attempt to fix the vote during Ukraine's 2004 presidential election. In 2004 Putin was captured wrinkling his face in disgust when Yanukovych offered him a sweet.The one-day meeting yielded few concrete results. But the outlines of a new Russia-friendly Ukraine were clear \u2013 with Yanukovych indicating he is ready to renew the lease on Russia's Black Sea fleet, which expires in 2017, whereas Yushchenko had pledged to evict the Russians from their base in the historic Crimean port of Sevastopol.He gave assurances that Ukraine was not contemplating joining Nato, a step that Russia regards as unacceptable. Asked whether Nato membership was still on the cards, Yanukovych said Ukraine would work with Nato but not join it. \"Ukraine is a non-bloc European country,\" he said.The two sides discussed Ukraine's large gas bill. Yanukovych promised during his election campaign to renegotiate a controversial gas deal signed by Putin and Tymoshenko last year. He wants to reduce the price paid by Kiev from $305 to $205-$210 per thousand cubic metres. It remains unclear how much the Kremlin is willing to co-operate.Yanukovych made clear that he shares the Kremlin's fiercely patriotic view of Soviet history, announcing that Ukrainian and Russian veterans would hold joint celebrations in May to mark the 65th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. Medvedev said Yanukovych had come up with the idea of a special train that could bring old soldiers together.Andrew Wilson, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said Yanukovych was trying to balance Ukraine's interests with Europe and Russia. \"Yanukovych is dealing with the new geography of the region. The US may not have changed its politics but it has downgraded Europe in its priorities. At the same time he wants a better personal relationship with Russia's leaders and with Putin. Things have been seriously bad since the incident in 2004 when Yanukovych offered Putin a sweet. \"Under Yushchenko, relations between Moscow and Kiev grew so acrimonious that Medvedev memorably described Yushchenko as a \"political corpse\". He refused last year to send an ambassador to Ukraine until Yushchenko, a harsh critic of the Kremlin who sought to leave Russia's sphere of influence, was out of office.\"Even when our country's ambassador was not in Kiev I would wake up thinking about Ukraine,\" Medvedev said. \"Now we have fundamentally different possibilities ... We will need to reanimate Russian-Ukrainian relations.\"Viktor Yanukovych's legendary gaffes have earned him comparison with the patron saint of the foot-in-mouth-prone: George Bush.Campaigning ahead of last month's Ukraine election, Yanukovych described the Russian playwright Anton Chekhov as a \"Ukrainian poet.\". He referred to Anna Akhmatova \u2013 who was a poet \u2013 as Anna Akhmetov. He appeared to be confusing her with Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and Yanukovych's billionaire godfather.During his first foreign trip to Brussels on Monday, Yanukovych came up with a new word for Kosovo \u2013 Montenegro. He also muddled up North Ossetia \u2013 which is part of Russia \u2013 with South Ossetia, the Russian-backed puppet region at the centre of the 2008 Russian-Georgian war.Supporters point out that Yanukovych \u2013 a native Russian speaker \u2013 had little formal education and has at least taken the trouble to learn Ukrainian, a language that many Ukrainians cannot speak.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Viktor Yanukovych promises Ukraine will embrace Russia"},{"date": "2010-02-01T08:19:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Negotiations over a new arms control treaty between the US and Russia resumed in Geneva today amid growing criticism of Barack Obama's conciliatory policy towards the Kremlin from human rights groups and a newly emboldened Republican party.Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, indicated last week that a successor agreement to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start 1) could be signed within weeks. The 1972 treaty expired on 5 December, leaving Moscow and Washington without an operational arms control regime for the first time in 40 years.A spokesman for the US mission in Geneva, Michael Parmly, said today that the delegation hoped \"the remaining negotiations can be concluded quickly,\" but declined to say when that might be.But even if the sides manage to resolve their outstanding differences over verification and missile defence, serious doubts remain about Obama's ability to ratify any new treaty ahead of November's mid-term US elections. Analysts say that if Obama fails to persuade the Senate to back a deal, the current arms control \"vacuum\" may continue.Sixty-seven votes are needed in the Senate to ratify the treaty, and the Republican Scott Brown's victory in the Massachusetts Senate race last week compounded Obama's difficulties, emboldening the opposition and creating anxiety among centrist Democrats. When the treaty comes up for consideration, Republicans will be inclined to portray Obama as making concessions on defence.\"They don't want President Obama to score a major policy victory that would lend heft to his credentials as a great American statesman in the run-up to the midterm elections,\" said a US official familiar with the treaty talks. \"They are going to use this as a political football and play this in a political way rather than out of consideration for its merits.\"A year after his inauguration, critics claim Obama has failed to realise many of his major foreign policy goals, including on Iran and the Middle East, with his \"reset\" strategy towards Russia yet to produce tangible results. One of Obama's key aspirations was to improve relations with Moscow in return for closer co-operation on Iran and its nuclear programme and the war in Afghanistan.So far, however, the Kremlin has made no significant concessions towards the Obama White House, either over a sanctions regime against Tehran or anything else. Obama's decision to dump the Bush-era missile defence shield in central Europe last summer \u2013 an issue that had enraged Vladimir Putin, Russia's hawkish prime minister \u2013 failed to elicit any reciprocal gesture from the Russian side.Obama's tactical silence on human rights issues in Russia and other repressive former Soviet republics, meanwhile, has infuriated human rights defenders. During a visit to Moscow last December, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, made clear that human rights issues would now be discussed \"behind closed doors\" with the Russian government, prompting accusations that Obama had relegated values to third-tier status.\"I don't think keeping silent is the way to go. At this stage, I would express disappointment with the Obama-Clinton approach,\" Allison Gill, the director of the Russia office of Human Rights Watch, said. \"I don't think there is any evidence that pragmatic silence has proved particularly effective, certainly in promoting human rights.\"Russian human rights defenders concur. \"A more definite approach from the Americans wouldn't hurt civil society in Russia. You have to speak the truth,\" Lev Ponomarev, a prominent activist who has met Clinton, said. Ponomarev complained Clinton had not offered any criticism of the situation in Russia, where journalists are routinely murdered, and said the secretary of state's short encounter with civil society representatives had been a \"protocol\" one.Some believe that in its eagerness to improve relations with Moscow, the Obama administration made key mistakes, in particular in its erroneously \"optimistic\" assessment of Medvedev. During his visit to Moscow last July, Obama held long face-to-face negotiations with Medvedev while snubbing Putin, in an unsubtle attempt to boost Medvedev's domestic prestige.Since then, however, it has become clear that Medvedev is not the liberal reformer that some had hoped but part of Russia's managed democracy construct, in which elections are stage-managed and dissent swiftly squashed. Few are in any doubt that it is Putin who continues to run the country, and who remains the supreme arbiter of both domestic and foreign affairs.\"I think the administration had the feeling that more had changed in the Russian political scene with the arrival of Medvedev than was actually the case,\" Sam Greene, deputy director of the Moscow Carnegie Centre, said. Asked whether the Obama administration had been naive in its assessment, he said: \"I think they were very quickly disavowed of the notion [that Medvedev was a liberal] \u2013 during the summit itself, in fact.\"A new Start treaty would face an uphill battle to win Senate approval, he added. \"The reality is that in a hard-fought election, anything can become hostage with politics. I think the state department and the administration will be wary of risking a treaty as important as this in a political season as fraught as we are likely to see towards the summer and fall.\" He went on: \"If they don't get a treaty soon, it may have to wait until next year to ratify.\"James Collins, former US ambassador to Russia under Bill Clinton, said ratification entirely depended on whether it was consistent with the US military's nuclear posture review, currently under way, and the military's and the intelligence community's approval of its verification mechanisms.He said the time was ripe for the eventual treaty language to be judged on its own merits, with few available political \"cheap shots\".\"It has been negotiated to serve American interests. Nobody was playing politics or games with it. We didn't have artificial deadlines, and it wasn't set against Obama's Nobel prize,\" Collins said.Over the last month, the Republicans have considerably stepped up their attack on Obama's Russia strategy, directing their fire in particular at Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue. Surkov is synonymous with the rollback of democracy during the Putin era. He visited Washington last week as co-chair of a new US-Russian intergovernmental civil society working group set up by Obama and Medvedev.On 11 December, more than 60 Republican members of Congress signed a letter urging Obama to boycott the meeting until Surkov, Medvedev's deputy chief of staff, was replaced by \"someone who has not been involved in establishing oppressive and undemocratic policies\". They also expressed concern over Russia's human rights record.In an interview with Radio Liberty, Michael McFaul, special assistant to Obama and senior director for Russian affairs at the National Security Council, played down the \"controversy\" over Surkov.He said it was better to engage with Russia, even if there were \"disagreements\", than to \"sit in our cubbyholes and not have any real connectivity with those that we think we are disagreeing with\".Some believe Obama has brought about a marked improvement in US-Russian relations \u2013 at least in tone. \"There have been positive steps. It isn't a shouting match any more,\" Sergei Rogov, the director of Moscow's Insitute for US and Canada Studies, said. Rogov acknowledged there were disagreements \u2013 over Russia's claim, for example, it is entitled to a sphere of influence in post-Soviet countries. He also noted that trade and investment were \"going down\".The key test, he said, was whether Obama could deliver a new Start treaty. \"If we sign the treaty, there may be more progress in other areas; if we don't sign, we will have a repetition of the old story \u2013 a nice declaration but no practical achievements.\"Others said Obama's failure to reap any dividends from his rapprochement with Russia was due to a more profound conceptual weakness: his failure to define America's role in the 21st century. \"The problem is Obama's foreign policy. He is trying to solve complex problems without having a clear strategy of how to position the US in the new world,\" Fyodor Lukyanov, editor-in-chief of Russian in Global Affairs, said.Start 1 was approved in 1992 on a 93-6 vote. Despite the acrimonious climate in Washington, some analysts hold out hope the new treaty will not get bogged down in domestic electoral politics, and will be judged on its own merits.\"The concerns about US defence go beyond the party-line divisions,\" said Ariel Cohen, a Russia and Eurasia analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation. \"In the past, both Republicans and Democrats were those who approved. And in things like nuclear weapons, responsible politicians do not trifle.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US-Russia arms control treaty talks resume"},{"date": "2010-03-24T20:51:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama's ambitious goal of freeing the world of nuclear weapons won a significant boost tonight when Russia indicated that it had reached agreement with the United States on a historic nuclear arms reduction treaty.Kremlin officials said that a document to replace the 1991 Start treaty had been agreed with Washington. A signing ceremony between Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, is likely to take place early next month in the Czech capital Prague, they said.White House officials stopped short of announcing a done deal, but confirmed the US was \"very close\" to signing a new treaty with Russia. They suggested that the last remaining step was for the two presidents to agree a signing date.\"We are, I think very close to having an agreement on a Start treaty, but we won't have one until President Obama and his counterpart, Mr Medvedev, have a chance to speak,\" said White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs. He suggested that would happen within a few days.A spokesman for the Czech president, V\u00e1clav Klaus, said a date for the signing had been agreed but would be announced later. The Americans are likely to prefer 5 April, the first anniversary of Obama's speech in the Czech capital in which he outlined his vision of a nuclear-free world.The treaty, which substantially reduces Russian and US nuclear arsenals and delivery systems, is a big achievement for Obama and his attempts to reset relations with Russia. Negotiators had been trying to reach agreement for nearly a year, and the previous treaty expired last December.The breakthrough followed US secretary of state Hillary Clinton's visit to Moscow last week and last minute talks with Vladimir Putin, the prime minister. Putin had insisted there could only be a new treaty if the US linked nuclear reductions to its revised missile defence shield in Europe.The White House's decision to site parts of its missile shield in Romania \u2013 and possibly Bulgaria \u2013 is known to have irked Putin. But he appears to have allowed Medvedev and Obama a mutual foreign policy success. Obama must now persuade sceptical Republicans to ratify the treaty.One nuclear arms expert said the US and Russia may have amended the way nuclear missiles and launchers are counted to arrive at the figures agreed at a US-Russian presidential summit in Moscow last July.Obama and Medvedev called for a reduction to between 1,500 and 1,675 warheads and 500 to 1,100 delivery systems including missiles and bombers. The expired treaty permits each side a maximum of 2,200 warheads and 1,600 launch vehicles.No details had been published, but Yevgeny Myasnikov, a leading Moscow-based defence expert, said the new pact was likely to include a clause allowing the reductions to be reversible, so that both sides could reassemble nuclear warheads in an emergency. \"There isn't much in the substance of this treaty,\" he said.The treaty would however allow Russia and the US to discuss more significant further strategic nuclear cuts, he said. \"I think it's a good start. Both sides benefit from this. But further progress will take time and effort.\"Anne Penketh, programme director of the Washington-based, independent British American Security Information Council, agreed. \"If you look at the actual treaty, they are not going to be cutting up weapons. They are just not going to be deployed. It is quite a modest treaty. It is important in what it says about US-Russian relations. It is a signal of the tangible improvement.\"A treaty will provide Obama with a much-needed foreign policy success. He had hoped to have the Start treaty signed and ratified by the Senate before a high-profile nuclear review summit in Washington next month. He had also hoped to have ratification of a comprehensive test ban treaty in place, but that is unlikely this year.A framework for the Start deal was agreed in Moscow last July, but final agreement has been held up by differences over the exchange of data on missile performance and defence systems.The two presidents' remarks will be as closely scrutinised as the treaty text, for signs on the future of arms control.\"The question is: What do the presidents say about the next steps,\" said Daryl Kimball, the head of the Arms Control Association in Washington.\"The two sides share a common goal to pursue further nuclear arms cuts. A common path has not yet been established. I would hope the two presidents will say we will continue our consultations on further nuclear arms reductions.\"Advocates of multilateral disarmament hope this deal will quickly be followed by talks on a far more reaching treaty that will bring each sides total number of warheads to below 1000.Each side may also make unilateral statements on the future of missile defence, which is not part of the treaty, but which held up its signing. Romania's agreement in January to host a new US missile defence system almost derailed the START talks.The Russians could opt to declare a proviso that if the American missile defence scheme grew to the point that it infringed its vital national security interests, it reserved the right to withdraw from the new START treaty.Some US senators have vowed to oppose ratification of the treaty if that happens, but arms control advocates point out that a similar declaration accompanied the original START.John Kerry, the chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee said he discussed the agreement with President Obama yesterday was planning to hold hearings on the new treaty in the week beginning on April 4.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "Europe"], "title": "Russia claims breakthrough in historic nuclear reduction agreement with US"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-11T10:49:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There's an old Westminster gag about Labour creating more tsars than Russia. It was never particularly funny, but at least it was recognisable as a joke. Until today \u2013 when new figures have been published showing that it is actually true.The evidence comes from the Commons public administration committee, which has published a report called Goats and Tsars about the appointment of people from outside parliament to ministerial or other government posts.In the appendix at the end (on page 79) it includes a memo from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who was asked to identify all the tsars appointed by the government. He named 25, not including the health tsars. A separate memo lists another 15 health tsars working as national clinical advisers in the NHS. That makes 40.My knowledge of Russian history is very limited. But the internet is a wonderful thing and this morning I've learned that the title tsar was used by Russian rulers from 1546 until 1917. According to this list, there were 26 of them.Tsars are a new development in British politics. According to the report, the term was first used in relation to the NHS appointments and the first tsar appointed in a wider political context was Keith Hellawell, who became drug tsar in 1998.The committee isn't impressed.At present there is little transparency concerning the informal and ad hoc appointments made by government to lead on, review or promote particular policies. Job titles are often uninformative, appointment processes informal and the work undertaken opaque and not clearly linked to results. The allegation that some of these posts might have been created for the sake of a press notice may be unfair, but it is difficult to refute without greater transparency.The committee says that the government should produce a regular list of tsars working in Whitehall and that, whenever a minister appoints a new one, the relevant department should spell out exactly what his or her responsibilities will be.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Government creates more tsars than Russia | Andrew Sparrow"},{"date": "2010-03-05T17:43:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has promised a dramatic improvement in relations with Russia during his first official visit to Moscow.Speaking after a meeting with his counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, Yanukovych said he would perform a sharp U-turn on the polices pursued by his predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, whose pro-west and pro-Nato stance infuriated the Kremlin.Welcoming him warmly, Medvedev said Yanukovych's election victory meant that the \"brotherly ties\" between Ukraine and Russia could now be restored. He added that the venomous stand-off between Moscow and Kiev following the 2004 Orange Revolution \u2013 a \"dark streak\", as Medvedev put it \u2013 was now over.Yanukovych's trip followed a visit on Monday to Brussels. He appears to be engaged in a delicate diplomatic balancing act between Ukraine's giant western and eastern neighbours. Asked why he had gone to see the EU first, Yanukovych declared simply that the Europeans had invited him earlier.Ukraine's new president was sworn in last week after narrowly defeating Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's prime minister, who leaned towards Europe and the west. Her Orange parliamentary coalition collapsed on Tuesday and Yanukovych is attempting to form his own government.Grinning broadly, and speaking in his native Russian, Yanukovych respectfully referred to Medevdev as \"Dmitry Anatolyevich\" during a joint press conference held in the Kremlin. At times he came across as a nervous suitor. \"I've only been in the job [of president] a few days. I'm still learning,\" he joked anxiously.Yanukovych also met Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister. Putin is said to regard Yanukovych \u2013 a former convict \u2013 as a provincial thug and serial loser, following Yanukovych's bungled attempt to fix the vote during Ukraine's 2004 presidential election. In 2004 Putin was captured wrinkling his face in disgust when Yanukovych offered him a sweet.The one-day meeting yielded few concrete results. But the outlines of a new Russia-friendly Ukraine were clear \u2013 with Yanukovych indicating he is ready to renew the lease on Russia's Black Sea fleet, which expires in 2017, whereas Yushchenko had pledged to evict the Russians from their base in the historic Crimean port of Sevastopol.He gave assurances that Ukraine was not contemplating joining Nato, a step that Russia regards as unacceptable. Asked whether Nato membership was still on the cards, Yanukovych said Ukraine would work with Nato but not join it. \"Ukraine is a non-bloc European country,\" he said.The two sides discussed Ukraine's large gas bill. Yanukovych promised during his election campaign to renegotiate a controversial gas deal signed by Putin and Tymoshenko last year. He wants to reduce the price paid by Kiev from $305 to $205-$210 per thousand cubic metres. It remains unclear how much the Kremlin is willing to co-operate.Yanukovych made clear that he shares the Kremlin's fiercely patriotic view of Soviet history, announcing that Ukrainian and Russian veterans would hold joint celebrations in May to mark the 65th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. Medvedev said Yanukovych had come up with the idea of a special train that could bring old soldiers together.Andrew Wilson, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said Yanukovych was trying to balance Ukraine's interests with Europe and Russia. \"Yanukovych is dealing with the new geography of the region. The US may not have changed its politics but it has downgraded Europe in its priorities. At the same time he wants a better personal relationship with Russia's leaders and with Putin. Things have been seriously bad since the incident in 2004 when Yanukovych offered Putin a sweet. \"Under Yushchenko, relations between Moscow and Kiev grew so acrimonious that Medvedev memorably described Yushchenko as a \"political corpse\". He refused last year to send an ambassador to Ukraine until Yushchenko, a harsh critic of the Kremlin who sought to leave Russia's sphere of influence, was out of office.\"Even when our country's ambassador was not in Kiev I would wake up thinking about Ukraine,\" Medvedev said. \"Now we have fundamentally different possibilities ... We will need to reanimate Russian-Ukrainian relations.\"Viktor Yanukovych's legendary gaffes have earned him comparison with the patron saint of the foot-in-mouth-prone: George Bush.Campaigning ahead of last month's Ukraine election, Yanukovych described the Russian playwright Anton Chekhov as a \"Ukrainian poet.\". He referred to Anna Akhmatova \u2013 who was a poet \u2013 as Anna Akhmetov. He appeared to be confusing her with Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and Yanukovych's billionaire godfather.During his first foreign trip to Brussels on Monday, Yanukovych came up with a new word for Kosovo \u2013 Montenegro. He also muddled up North Ossetia \u2013 which is part of Russia \u2013 with South Ossetia, the Russian-backed puppet region at the centre of the 2008 Russian-Georgian war.Supporters point out that Yanukovych \u2013 a native Russian speaker \u2013 had little formal education and has at least taken the trouble to learn Ukrainian, a language that many Ukrainians cannot speak.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Viktor Yanukovych promises Ukraine will embrace Russia"},{"date": "2010-02-01T08:19:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Negotiations over a new arms control treaty between the US and Russia resumed in Geneva today amid growing criticism of Barack Obama's conciliatory policy towards the Kremlin from human rights groups and a newly emboldened Republican party.Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, indicated last week that a successor agreement to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start 1) could be signed within weeks. The 1972 treaty expired on 5 December, leaving Moscow and Washington without an operational arms control regime for the first time in 40 years.A spokesman for the US mission in Geneva, Michael Parmly, said today that the delegation hoped \"the remaining negotiations can be concluded quickly,\" but declined to say when that might be.But even if the sides manage to resolve their outstanding differences over verification and missile defence, serious doubts remain about Obama's ability to ratify any new treaty ahead of November's mid-term US elections. Analysts say that if Obama fails to persuade the Senate to back a deal, the current arms control \"vacuum\" may continue.Sixty-seven votes are needed in the Senate to ratify the treaty, and the Republican Scott Brown's victory in the Massachusetts Senate race last week compounded Obama's difficulties, emboldening the opposition and creating anxiety among centrist Democrats. When the treaty comes up for consideration, Republicans will be inclined to portray Obama as making concessions on defence.\"They don't want President Obama to score a major policy victory that would lend heft to his credentials as a great American statesman in the run-up to the midterm elections,\" said a US official familiar with the treaty talks. \"They are going to use this as a political football and play this in a political way rather than out of consideration for its merits.\"A year after his inauguration, critics claim Obama has failed to realise many of his major foreign policy goals, including on Iran and the Middle East, with his \"reset\" strategy towards Russia yet to produce tangible results. One of Obama's key aspirations was to improve relations with Moscow in return for closer co-operation on Iran and its nuclear programme and the war in Afghanistan.So far, however, the Kremlin has made no significant concessions towards the Obama White House, either over a sanctions regime against Tehran or anything else. Obama's decision to dump the Bush-era missile defence shield in central Europe last summer \u2013 an issue that had enraged Vladimir Putin, Russia's hawkish prime minister \u2013 failed to elicit any reciprocal gesture from the Russian side.Obama's tactical silence on human rights issues in Russia and other repressive former Soviet republics, meanwhile, has infuriated human rights defenders. During a visit to Moscow last December, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, made clear that human rights issues would now be discussed \"behind closed doors\" with the Russian government, prompting accusations that Obama had relegated values to third-tier status.\"I don't think keeping silent is the way to go. At this stage, I would express disappointment with the Obama-Clinton approach,\" Allison Gill, the director of the Russia office of Human Rights Watch, said. \"I don't think there is any evidence that pragmatic silence has proved particularly effective, certainly in promoting human rights.\"Russian human rights defenders concur. \"A more definite approach from the Americans wouldn't hurt civil society in Russia. You have to speak the truth,\" Lev Ponomarev, a prominent activist who has met Clinton, said. Ponomarev complained Clinton had not offered any criticism of the situation in Russia, where journalists are routinely murdered, and said the secretary of state's short encounter with civil society representatives had been a \"protocol\" one.Some believe that in its eagerness to improve relations with Moscow, the Obama administration made key mistakes, in particular in its erroneously \"optimistic\" assessment of Medvedev. During his visit to Moscow last July, Obama held long face-to-face negotiations with Medvedev while snubbing Putin, in an unsubtle attempt to boost Medvedev's domestic prestige.Since then, however, it has become clear that Medvedev is not the liberal reformer that some had hoped but part of Russia's managed democracy construct, in which elections are stage-managed and dissent swiftly squashed. Few are in any doubt that it is Putin who continues to run the country, and who remains the supreme arbiter of both domestic and foreign affairs.\"I think the administration had the feeling that more had changed in the Russian political scene with the arrival of Medvedev than was actually the case,\" Sam Greene, deputy director of the Moscow Carnegie Centre, said. Asked whether the Obama administration had been naive in its assessment, he said: \"I think they were very quickly disavowed of the notion [that Medvedev was a liberal] \u2013 during the summit itself, in fact.\"A new Start treaty would face an uphill battle to win Senate approval, he added. \"The reality is that in a hard-fought election, anything can become hostage with politics. I think the state department and the administration will be wary of risking a treaty as important as this in a political season as fraught as we are likely to see towards the summer and fall.\" He went on: \"If they don't get a treaty soon, it may have to wait until next year to ratify.\"James Collins, former US ambassador to Russia under Bill Clinton, said ratification entirely depended on whether it was consistent with the US military's nuclear posture review, currently under way, and the military's and the intelligence community's approval of its verification mechanisms.He said the time was ripe for the eventual treaty language to be judged on its own merits, with few available political \"cheap shots\".\"It has been negotiated to serve American interests. Nobody was playing politics or games with it. We didn't have artificial deadlines, and it wasn't set against Obama's Nobel prize,\" Collins said.Over the last month, the Republicans have considerably stepped up their attack on Obama's Russia strategy, directing their fire in particular at Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue. Surkov is synonymous with the rollback of democracy during the Putin era. He visited Washington last week as co-chair of a new US-Russian intergovernmental civil society working group set up by Obama and Medvedev.On 11 December, more than 60 Republican members of Congress signed a letter urging Obama to boycott the meeting until Surkov, Medvedev's deputy chief of staff, was replaced by \"someone who has not been involved in establishing oppressive and undemocratic policies\". They also expressed concern over Russia's human rights record.In an interview with Radio Liberty, Michael McFaul, special assistant to Obama and senior director for Russian affairs at the National Security Council, played down the \"controversy\" over Surkov.He said it was better to engage with Russia, even if there were \"disagreements\", than to \"sit in our cubbyholes and not have any real connectivity with those that we think we are disagreeing with\".Some believe Obama has brought about a marked improvement in US-Russian relations \u2013 at least in tone. \"There have been positive steps. It isn't a shouting match any more,\" Sergei Rogov, the director of Moscow's Insitute for US and Canada Studies, said. Rogov acknowledged there were disagreements \u2013 over Russia's claim, for example, it is entitled to a sphere of influence in post-Soviet countries. He also noted that trade and investment were \"going down\".The key test, he said, was whether Obama could deliver a new Start treaty. \"If we sign the treaty, there may be more progress in other areas; if we don't sign, we will have a repetition of the old story \u2013 a nice declaration but no practical achievements.\"Others said Obama's failure to reap any dividends from his rapprochement with Russia was due to a more profound conceptual weakness: his failure to define America's role in the 21st century. \"The problem is Obama's foreign policy. He is trying to solve complex problems without having a clear strategy of how to position the US in the new world,\" Fyodor Lukyanov, editor-in-chief of Russian in Global Affairs, said.Start 1 was approved in 1992 on a 93-6 vote. Despite the acrimonious climate in Washington, some analysts hold out hope the new treaty will not get bogged down in domestic electoral politics, and will be judged on its own merits.\"The concerns about US defence go beyond the party-line divisions,\" said Ariel Cohen, a Russia and Eurasia analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation. \"In the past, both Republicans and Democrats were those who approved. And in things like nuclear weapons, responsible politicians do not trifle.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US-Russia arms control treaty talks resume"},{"date": "2010-03-24T20:51:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama's ambitious goal of freeing the world of nuclear weapons won a significant boost tonight when Russia indicated that it had reached agreement with the United States on a historic nuclear arms reduction treaty.Kremlin officials said that a document to replace the 1991 Start treaty had been agreed with Washington. A signing ceremony between Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, is likely to take place early next month in the Czech capital Prague, they said.White House officials stopped short of announcing a done deal, but confirmed the US was \"very close\" to signing a new treaty with Russia. They suggested that the last remaining step was for the two presidents to agree a signing date.\"We are, I think very close to having an agreement on a Start treaty, but we won't have one until President Obama and his counterpart, Mr Medvedev, have a chance to speak,\" said White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs. He suggested that would happen within a few days.A spokesman for the Czech president, V\u00e1clav Klaus, said a date for the signing had been agreed but would be announced later. The Americans are likely to prefer 5 April, the first anniversary of Obama's speech in the Czech capital in which he outlined his vision of a nuclear-free world.The treaty, which substantially reduces Russian and US nuclear arsenals and delivery systems, is a big achievement for Obama and his attempts to reset relations with Russia. Negotiators had been trying to reach agreement for nearly a year, and the previous treaty expired last December.The breakthrough followed US secretary of state Hillary Clinton's visit to Moscow last week and last minute talks with Vladimir Putin, the prime minister. Putin had insisted there could only be a new treaty if the US linked nuclear reductions to its revised missile defence shield in Europe.The White House's decision to site parts of its missile shield in Romania \u2013 and possibly Bulgaria \u2013 is known to have irked Putin. But he appears to have allowed Medvedev and Obama a mutual foreign policy success. Obama must now persuade sceptical Republicans to ratify the treaty.One nuclear arms expert said the US and Russia may have amended the way nuclear missiles and launchers are counted to arrive at the figures agreed at a US-Russian presidential summit in Moscow last July.Obama and Medvedev called for a reduction to between 1,500 and 1,675 warheads and 500 to 1,100 delivery systems including missiles and bombers. The expired treaty permits each side a maximum of 2,200 warheads and 1,600 launch vehicles.No details had been published, but Yevgeny Myasnikov, a leading Moscow-based defence expert, said the new pact was likely to include a clause allowing the reductions to be reversible, so that both sides could reassemble nuclear warheads in an emergency. \"There isn't much in the substance of this treaty,\" he said.The treaty would however allow Russia and the US to discuss more significant further strategic nuclear cuts, he said. \"I think it's a good start. Both sides benefit from this. But further progress will take time and effort.\"Anne Penketh, programme director of the Washington-based, independent British American Security Information Council, agreed. \"If you look at the actual treaty, they are not going to be cutting up weapons. They are just not going to be deployed. It is quite a modest treaty. It is important in what it says about US-Russian relations. It is a signal of the tangible improvement.\"A treaty will provide Obama with a much-needed foreign policy success. He had hoped to have the Start treaty signed and ratified by the Senate before a high-profile nuclear review summit in Washington next month. He had also hoped to have ratification of a comprehensive test ban treaty in place, but that is unlikely this year.A framework for the Start deal was agreed in Moscow last July, but final agreement has been held up by differences over the exchange of data on missile performance and defence systems.The two presidents' remarks will be as closely scrutinised as the treaty text, for signs on the future of arms control.\"The question is: What do the presidents say about the next steps,\" said Daryl Kimball, the head of the Arms Control Association in Washington.\"The two sides share a common goal to pursue further nuclear arms cuts. A common path has not yet been established. I would hope the two presidents will say we will continue our consultations on further nuclear arms reductions.\"Advocates of multilateral disarmament hope this deal will quickly be followed by talks on a far more reaching treaty that will bring each sides total number of warheads to below 1000.Each side may also make unilateral statements on the future of missile defence, which is not part of the treaty, but which held up its signing. Romania's agreement in January to host a new US missile defence system almost derailed the START talks.The Russians could opt to declare a proviso that if the American missile defence scheme grew to the point that it infringed its vital national security interests, it reserved the right to withdraw from the new START treaty.Some US senators have vowed to oppose ratification of the treaty if that happens, but arms control advocates point out that a similar declaration accompanied the original START.John Kerry, the chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee said he discussed the agreement with President Obama yesterday was planning to hold hearings on the new treaty in the week beginning on April 4.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "Europe"], "title": "Russia claims breakthrough in historic nuclear reduction agreement with US"},{"date": "2010-03-26T00:05:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "One might have thought that an agreement with Russia on cutting the stockpile of nuclear weapons would have been widely welcomed in Washington. This is, after all, arms control rather than disarmament, and cutting the number of warheads each side is allowed to have from 2,200 to between 1,500 and 1,675 can hardly be considered appeasement. But no, before the details of the deal have even been released, all 41 Republicans senators have put on record their determination to block ratification (which, being a treaty, requires 67 votes and thus seven Republican ones) unless the US \"modernises\" its ICBM force and delinks offensive weapons with missile defence. As the agreement with Russia has only been reached by recognising the relationship that exists between offensive weapons and missile defence, this condition alone is tantamount to tearing any new treaty up.There are more than 20,000 nuclear weapons around today, enough to convince former Republican secretaries of state like Henry Kissinger and George Shultz , that nuclear weapons are a liability to US security rather than an asset. This modest agreement with Russia is a first step in a year which will contain exponentially larger challenges: how to convince the 184 states that have signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT), but who don't have nuclear weapons, that the five signatories who have weapons are doing enough to bring along non-signatory nuclear-armed states such as India, Pakistan and Israel? President Barack Obama had originally hoped to have the successor to Start in his pocket and ratified before going to the review conference of the NPT, which this year will be dominated by fears of a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. While the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in Middle East has broad support, Israel has flatly rejected Egypt's demand to join the NPT as a non-weapons state. Egypt is determined to press its demand for an international conference in 2011 with both Iran and Israel at the table, and has threatened to withdraw its support for other areas of the treaty, should the United States go cool on the idea. And all this before Mr Obama attempts to pursue US ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty, the cornerstone of nuclear arms control.This is, to say the least, a crowded and complex agenda and one measure of how little progress was made in arms control and non-proliferation under the last two US presidential terms. Republican senators can ill afford to see the replacement to Start with their customary post-cold war myopia. Russia has had its own problems in negotiating this treaty. Not least of these are the repeated warnings from the Russian defence establishment that their conventional forces are now so weak, in relation to Nato's, and so lacking in global reach, that their nuclear arsenal is their only real defence. While there are many US exponents of a world free of nuclear weapons, there are for this reason, few Russian ones.It was thus all the more important for Mr Obama to reset relations with Moscow, and it is now right that his policy of engagement has produced his first major foreign policy dividend. Remember the fears that eastern European states expressed about the prospect of being left out in the cold by America's new strategic alliance with Moscow? Today Radek Sikorski, foreign minister of Poland, takes a somewhat softer line welcoming the prospect of a new agreement with Russia and looking forward to steep reductions in tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. A major arms control agreement with Russia is not being made at eastern Europe's expense. Quite the contrary, it enhances European security. The important thing now is for negotiations to start on a treaty that would make deep cuts in nuclear arsenals. This agreement has cemented the US dialogue with Russia, but it should not stop here.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "US news", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US-Russia nuclear deal: Two tribes don't go to war | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-29T23:05:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The parallels are written in the blood of the innocent. On a day much like any other, suicide bombers descend into the underground system of a major European city in the midst of the morning rush hour. They board a crowded train, crammed with commuters. They detonate their explosives. The impact is indiscriminate and lethal, in many cases life ending, in all others life changing. For a while, chaos reigns in the city. Then come the calls for action and the pledges of revenge. Five years ago the city was London. Yesterday morning it was Moscow.What happened yesterday at two Moscow underground stations was barbaric. Violence of this kind against innocent people is intolerable wherever it occurs. Quite rightly, there is a reflexive sense of solidarity between those who have suffered from terrorist outrages. Many Londoners know what many Muscovites have just experienced. Countries such as Britain, Spain and India, all of which have endured long and difficult battles against their own terrorists, as well as lethal terror attacks on their urban transport systems, have lessons \u2013 mistakes as well as successes \u2013 to share with the Russians.Our societies face a similar scourge. But we do not face a common enemy. It is important that we do not pretend otherwise, not least because the world is riddled with indefensible actions taken by states with varying degrees of justification in the name of a common struggle against terrorism. Most terrorism has local not global roots and most solutions are local too. The logic, if that is the right word, of the bombings lies in several previous attacks over the past decade and in Moscow's often ruthless and occasionally incompetent responses to them. This in turn is rooted in the bitter nexus of Moscow's relationship with its subject territories in the north Caucacus, a relationship that stretches back beyond the Soviet era to the imperial age. The bombers' choice of the Lubyanka underground station, underneath the headquarters of the FSB security police, as a target was surely very deliberate.At the very least yesterday's bombs question Russian claims to have quelled the insurgencies in the north Caucasus. A brutal stability may now exist by comparison with the era of the Chechen wars, but it has been achieved at the cost of massive and ongoing human rights violations. Yesterday's bombings follow last month's escalation of Russian action against insurgents in Ingushetia, which killed the suspected leader of the team that bombed the Moscow to St Petersburg express train in November. Rebels duly threatened reprisals that now seem to have occurred in the Moscow Metro. Russia's dirty war is not over after all. And, as so often, the innocent are the first to suffer.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Shared scourge, different causes | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-27T23:54:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato's secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen has called on Russia to be included in US plans to develop a missile defence shield in Europe. In a speech at the Brussels Forum, organised by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Rasmussen said:We need a missile defence system that includes not just all countries of NATO, but Russia too. One security roof, that we support together, and that we operate together. One security roof that protects us all.One security roof would be a very strong political symbol that Russia is fully part of the Euro Atlantic family sharing the benefits and the costs not outside but very much inside. That would be rare new Euro Atlantic security architecture.The first Russian response: \"We are not suicidal\"Moscow was not going to help develop a system that could one day be used against Russian strategic nuclear forces, and therefore undermine its deterrent, this official said.We are not going to cooperate with any system that affects our strategic deterrent. We are not suicidal. In order for there to be cooperation we need to distinguish between non-strategic and strategic systems, and strategic missile defence systems should be banned.Here is the problem. Last September, when Obama dumped the Bush era missile defence scheme and replaced it with one of his own, the Russians gave it a cautious welcome. The initial phase of the Obama system was shorter range and based out to sea in the Mediterranean. But Moscow has since realised that later phases will be based on land, first in Romania, then in Poland, and will ultimately (in 2020) involve bigger missiles aimed at hitting ICBMs. Romania's announcement in February that it would host one of the new sites nearly derailed the START nuclear arms control talks, and ended up delaying them by at least a month. According to US and Russian sources the preamble of the new START treaty, to be signed in Prague on April 8, acknowledges a link between offensive and defensive systems, but does not impose any limits on the development of missile defence. Russian officials say that in order to cut its strategic arsenal much below the new limit of 1550 deployed weapons, Moscow would have to have guarantees that the US would not develop a strategic missile defence system. The US argument is: we don't need a new ban, we just need transparency to demonstrate the new system is aimed only at Iran. Not good enough, the Russians respond. That's where it stands now. The missile defence row has been kicked up the road. It hasn't been kicked out of the way.", "tags": ["Nato", "Russia", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Europe"], "title": "Nato offers Russia a shared 'security roof'"},{"date": "2010-03-11T10:49:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There's an old Westminster gag about Labour creating more tsars than Russia. It was never particularly funny, but at least it was recognisable as a joke. Until today \u2013 when new figures have been published showing that it is actually true.The evidence comes from the Commons public administration committee, which has published a report called Goats and Tsars about the appointment of people from outside parliament to ministerial or other government posts.In the appendix at the end (on page 79) it includes a memo from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who was asked to identify all the tsars appointed by the government. He named 25, not including the health tsars. A separate memo lists another 15 health tsars working as national clinical advisers in the NHS. That makes 40.My knowledge of Russian history is very limited. But the internet is a wonderful thing and this morning I've learned that the title tsar was used by Russian rulers from 1546 until 1917. According to this list, there were 26 of them.Tsars are a new development in British politics. According to the report, the term was first used in relation to the NHS appointments and the first tsar appointed in a wider political context was Keith Hellawell, who became drug tsar in 1998.The committee isn't impressed.At present there is little transparency concerning the informal and ad hoc appointments made by government to lead on, review or promote particular policies. Job titles are often uninformative, appointment processes informal and the work undertaken opaque and not clearly linked to results. The allegation that some of these posts might have been created for the sake of a press notice may be unfair, but it is difficult to refute without greater transparency.The committee says that the government should produce a regular list of tsars working in Whitehall and that, whenever a minister appoints a new one, the relevant department should spell out exactly what his or her responsibilities will be.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Government creates more tsars than Russia | Andrew Sparrow"},{"date": "2010-03-05T17:43:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new president of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has promised a dramatic improvement in relations with Russia during his first official visit to Moscow.Speaking after a meeting with his counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, Yanukovych said he would perform a sharp U-turn on the polices pursued by his predecessor, Viktor Yushchenko, whose pro-west and pro-Nato stance infuriated the Kremlin.Welcoming him warmly, Medvedev said Yanukovych's election victory meant that the \"brotherly ties\" between Ukraine and Russia could now be restored. He added that the venomous stand-off between Moscow and Kiev following the 2004 Orange Revolution \u2013 a \"dark streak\", as Medvedev put it \u2013 was now over.Yanukovych's trip followed a visit on Monday to Brussels. He appears to be engaged in a delicate diplomatic balancing act between Ukraine's giant western and eastern neighbours. Asked why he had gone to see the EU first, Yanukovych declared simply that the Europeans had invited him earlier.Ukraine's new president was sworn in last week after narrowly defeating Yulia Tymoshenko, the country's prime minister, who leaned towards Europe and the west. Her Orange parliamentary coalition collapsed on Tuesday and Yanukovych is attempting to form his own government.Grinning broadly, and speaking in his native Russian, Yanukovych respectfully referred to Medevdev as \"Dmitry Anatolyevich\" during a joint press conference held in the Kremlin. At times he came across as a nervous suitor. \"I've only been in the job [of president] a few days. I'm still learning,\" he joked anxiously.Yanukovych also met Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister. Putin is said to regard Yanukovych \u2013 a former convict \u2013 as a provincial thug and serial loser, following Yanukovych's bungled attempt to fix the vote during Ukraine's 2004 presidential election. In 2004 Putin was captured wrinkling his face in disgust when Yanukovych offered him a sweet.The one-day meeting yielded few concrete results. But the outlines of a new Russia-friendly Ukraine were clear \u2013 with Yanukovych indicating he is ready to renew the lease on Russia's Black Sea fleet, which expires in 2017, whereas Yushchenko had pledged to evict the Russians from their base in the historic Crimean port of Sevastopol.He gave assurances that Ukraine was not contemplating joining Nato, a step that Russia regards as unacceptable. Asked whether Nato membership was still on the cards, Yanukovych said Ukraine would work with Nato but not join it. \"Ukraine is a non-bloc European country,\" he said.The two sides discussed Ukraine's large gas bill. Yanukovych promised during his election campaign to renegotiate a controversial gas deal signed by Putin and Tymoshenko last year. He wants to reduce the price paid by Kiev from $305 to $205-$210 per thousand cubic metres. It remains unclear how much the Kremlin is willing to co-operate.Yanukovych made clear that he shares the Kremlin's fiercely patriotic view of Soviet history, announcing that Ukrainian and Russian veterans would hold joint celebrations in May to mark the 65th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. Medvedev said Yanukovych had come up with the idea of a special train that could bring old soldiers together.Andrew Wilson, a senior fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations, said Yanukovych was trying to balance Ukraine's interests with Europe and Russia. \"Yanukovych is dealing with the new geography of the region. The US may not have changed its politics but it has downgraded Europe in its priorities. At the same time he wants a better personal relationship with Russia's leaders and with Putin. Things have been seriously bad since the incident in 2004 when Yanukovych offered Putin a sweet. \"Under Yushchenko, relations between Moscow and Kiev grew so acrimonious that Medvedev memorably described Yushchenko as a \"political corpse\". He refused last year to send an ambassador to Ukraine until Yushchenko, a harsh critic of the Kremlin who sought to leave Russia's sphere of influence, was out of office.\"Even when our country's ambassador was not in Kiev I would wake up thinking about Ukraine,\" Medvedev said. \"Now we have fundamentally different possibilities ... We will need to reanimate Russian-Ukrainian relations.\"Viktor Yanukovych's legendary gaffes have earned him comparison with the patron saint of the foot-in-mouth-prone: George Bush.Campaigning ahead of last month's Ukraine election, Yanukovych described the Russian playwright Anton Chekhov as a \"Ukrainian poet.\". He referred to Anna Akhmatova \u2013 who was a poet \u2013 as Anna Akhmetov. He appeared to be confusing her with Rinat Akhmetov, Ukraine's richest man and Yanukovych's billionaire godfather.During his first foreign trip to Brussels on Monday, Yanukovych came up with a new word for Kosovo \u2013 Montenegro. He also muddled up North Ossetia \u2013 which is part of Russia \u2013 with South Ossetia, the Russian-backed puppet region at the centre of the 2008 Russian-Georgian war.Supporters point out that Yanukovych \u2013 a native Russian speaker \u2013 had little formal education and has at least taken the trouble to learn Ukrainian, a language that many Ukrainians cannot speak.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Viktor Yanukovych promises Ukraine will embrace Russia"},{"date": "2010-02-01T08:19:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Negotiations over a new arms control treaty between the US and Russia resumed in Geneva today amid growing criticism of Barack Obama's conciliatory policy towards the Kremlin from human rights groups and a newly emboldened Republican party.Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, indicated last week that a successor agreement to the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (Start 1) could be signed within weeks. The 1972 treaty expired on 5 December, leaving Moscow and Washington without an operational arms control regime for the first time in 40 years.A spokesman for the US mission in Geneva, Michael Parmly, said today that the delegation hoped \"the remaining negotiations can be concluded quickly,\" but declined to say when that might be.But even if the sides manage to resolve their outstanding differences over verification and missile defence, serious doubts remain about Obama's ability to ratify any new treaty ahead of November's mid-term US elections. Analysts say that if Obama fails to persuade the Senate to back a deal, the current arms control \"vacuum\" may continue.Sixty-seven votes are needed in the Senate to ratify the treaty, and the Republican Scott Brown's victory in the Massachusetts Senate race last week compounded Obama's difficulties, emboldening the opposition and creating anxiety among centrist Democrats. When the treaty comes up for consideration, Republicans will be inclined to portray Obama as making concessions on defence.\"They don't want President Obama to score a major policy victory that would lend heft to his credentials as a great American statesman in the run-up to the midterm elections,\" said a US official familiar with the treaty talks. \"They are going to use this as a political football and play this in a political way rather than out of consideration for its merits.\"A year after his inauguration, critics claim Obama has failed to realise many of his major foreign policy goals, including on Iran and the Middle East, with his \"reset\" strategy towards Russia yet to produce tangible results. One of Obama's key aspirations was to improve relations with Moscow in return for closer co-operation on Iran and its nuclear programme and the war in Afghanistan.So far, however, the Kremlin has made no significant concessions towards the Obama White House, either over a sanctions regime against Tehran or anything else. Obama's decision to dump the Bush-era missile defence shield in central Europe last summer \u2013 an issue that had enraged Vladimir Putin, Russia's hawkish prime minister \u2013 failed to elicit any reciprocal gesture from the Russian side.Obama's tactical silence on human rights issues in Russia and other repressive former Soviet republics, meanwhile, has infuriated human rights defenders. During a visit to Moscow last December, the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, made clear that human rights issues would now be discussed \"behind closed doors\" with the Russian government, prompting accusations that Obama had relegated values to third-tier status.\"I don't think keeping silent is the way to go. At this stage, I would express disappointment with the Obama-Clinton approach,\" Allison Gill, the director of the Russia office of Human Rights Watch, said. \"I don't think there is any evidence that pragmatic silence has proved particularly effective, certainly in promoting human rights.\"Russian human rights defenders concur. \"A more definite approach from the Americans wouldn't hurt civil society in Russia. You have to speak the truth,\" Lev Ponomarev, a prominent activist who has met Clinton, said. Ponomarev complained Clinton had not offered any criticism of the situation in Russia, where journalists are routinely murdered, and said the secretary of state's short encounter with civil society representatives had been a \"protocol\" one.Some believe that in its eagerness to improve relations with Moscow, the Obama administration made key mistakes, in particular in its erroneously \"optimistic\" assessment of Medvedev. During his visit to Moscow last July, Obama held long face-to-face negotiations with Medvedev while snubbing Putin, in an unsubtle attempt to boost Medvedev's domestic prestige.Since then, however, it has become clear that Medvedev is not the liberal reformer that some had hoped but part of Russia's managed democracy construct, in which elections are stage-managed and dissent swiftly squashed. Few are in any doubt that it is Putin who continues to run the country, and who remains the supreme arbiter of both domestic and foreign affairs.\"I think the administration had the feeling that more had changed in the Russian political scene with the arrival of Medvedev than was actually the case,\" Sam Greene, deputy director of the Moscow Carnegie Centre, said. Asked whether the Obama administration had been naive in its assessment, he said: \"I think they were very quickly disavowed of the notion [that Medvedev was a liberal] \u2013 during the summit itself, in fact.\"A new Start treaty would face an uphill battle to win Senate approval, he added. \"The reality is that in a hard-fought election, anything can become hostage with politics. I think the state department and the administration will be wary of risking a treaty as important as this in a political season as fraught as we are likely to see towards the summer and fall.\" He went on: \"If they don't get a treaty soon, it may have to wait until next year to ratify.\"James Collins, former US ambassador to Russia under Bill Clinton, said ratification entirely depended on whether it was consistent with the US military's nuclear posture review, currently under way, and the military's and the intelligence community's approval of its verification mechanisms.He said the time was ripe for the eventual treaty language to be judged on its own merits, with few available political \"cheap shots\".\"It has been negotiated to serve American interests. Nobody was playing politics or games with it. We didn't have artificial deadlines, and it wasn't set against Obama's Nobel prize,\" Collins said.Over the last month, the Republicans have considerably stepped up their attack on Obama's Russia strategy, directing their fire in particular at Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's chief ideologue. Surkov is synonymous with the rollback of democracy during the Putin era. He visited Washington last week as co-chair of a new US-Russian intergovernmental civil society working group set up by Obama and Medvedev.On 11 December, more than 60 Republican members of Congress signed a letter urging Obama to boycott the meeting until Surkov, Medvedev's deputy chief of staff, was replaced by \"someone who has not been involved in establishing oppressive and undemocratic policies\". They also expressed concern over Russia's human rights record.In an interview with Radio Liberty, Michael McFaul, special assistant to Obama and senior director for Russian affairs at the National Security Council, played down the \"controversy\" over Surkov.He said it was better to engage with Russia, even if there were \"disagreements\", than to \"sit in our cubbyholes and not have any real connectivity with those that we think we are disagreeing with\".Some believe Obama has brought about a marked improvement in US-Russian relations \u2013 at least in tone. \"There have been positive steps. It isn't a shouting match any more,\" Sergei Rogov, the director of Moscow's Insitute for US and Canada Studies, said. Rogov acknowledged there were disagreements \u2013 over Russia's claim, for example, it is entitled to a sphere of influence in post-Soviet countries. He also noted that trade and investment were \"going down\".The key test, he said, was whether Obama could deliver a new Start treaty. \"If we sign the treaty, there may be more progress in other areas; if we don't sign, we will have a repetition of the old story \u2013 a nice declaration but no practical achievements.\"Others said Obama's failure to reap any dividends from his rapprochement with Russia was due to a more profound conceptual weakness: his failure to define America's role in the 21st century. \"The problem is Obama's foreign policy. He is trying to solve complex problems without having a clear strategy of how to position the US in the new world,\" Fyodor Lukyanov, editor-in-chief of Russian in Global Affairs, said.Start 1 was approved in 1992 on a 93-6 vote. Despite the acrimonious climate in Washington, some analysts hold out hope the new treaty will not get bogged down in domestic electoral politics, and will be judged on its own merits.\"The concerns about US defence go beyond the party-line divisions,\" said Ariel Cohen, a Russia and Eurasia analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation. \"In the past, both Republicans and Democrats were those who approved. And in things like nuclear weapons, responsible politicians do not trifle.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US-Russia arms control treaty talks resume"},{"date": "2010-03-24T20:51:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama's ambitious goal of freeing the world of nuclear weapons won a significant boost tonight when Russia indicated that it had reached agreement with the United States on a historic nuclear arms reduction treaty.Kremlin officials said that a document to replace the 1991 Start treaty had been agreed with Washington. A signing ceremony between Obama and Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, is likely to take place early next month in the Czech capital Prague, they said.White House officials stopped short of announcing a done deal, but confirmed the US was \"very close\" to signing a new treaty with Russia. They suggested that the last remaining step was for the two presidents to agree a signing date.\"We are, I think very close to having an agreement on a Start treaty, but we won't have one until President Obama and his counterpart, Mr Medvedev, have a chance to speak,\" said White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs. He suggested that would happen within a few days.A spokesman for the Czech president, V\u00e1clav Klaus, said a date for the signing had been agreed but would be announced later. The Americans are likely to prefer 5 April, the first anniversary of Obama's speech in the Czech capital in which he outlined his vision of a nuclear-free world.The treaty, which substantially reduces Russian and US nuclear arsenals and delivery systems, is a big achievement for Obama and his attempts to reset relations with Russia. Negotiators had been trying to reach agreement for nearly a year, and the previous treaty expired last December.The breakthrough followed US secretary of state Hillary Clinton's visit to Moscow last week and last minute talks with Vladimir Putin, the prime minister. Putin had insisted there could only be a new treaty if the US linked nuclear reductions to its revised missile defence shield in Europe.The White House's decision to site parts of its missile shield in Romania \u2013 and possibly Bulgaria \u2013 is known to have irked Putin. But he appears to have allowed Medvedev and Obama a mutual foreign policy success. Obama must now persuade sceptical Republicans to ratify the treaty.One nuclear arms expert said the US and Russia may have amended the way nuclear missiles and launchers are counted to arrive at the figures agreed at a US-Russian presidential summit in Moscow last July.Obama and Medvedev called for a reduction to between 1,500 and 1,675 warheads and 500 to 1,100 delivery systems including missiles and bombers. The expired treaty permits each side a maximum of 2,200 warheads and 1,600 launch vehicles.No details had been published, but Yevgeny Myasnikov, a leading Moscow-based defence expert, said the new pact was likely to include a clause allowing the reductions to be reversible, so that both sides could reassemble nuclear warheads in an emergency. \"There isn't much in the substance of this treaty,\" he said.The treaty would however allow Russia and the US to discuss more significant further strategic nuclear cuts, he said. \"I think it's a good start. Both sides benefit from this. But further progress will take time and effort.\"Anne Penketh, programme director of the Washington-based, independent British American Security Information Council, agreed. \"If you look at the actual treaty, they are not going to be cutting up weapons. They are just not going to be deployed. It is quite a modest treaty. It is important in what it says about US-Russian relations. It is a signal of the tangible improvement.\"A treaty will provide Obama with a much-needed foreign policy success. He had hoped to have the Start treaty signed and ratified by the Senate before a high-profile nuclear review summit in Washington next month. He had also hoped to have ratification of a comprehensive test ban treaty in place, but that is unlikely this year.A framework for the Start deal was agreed in Moscow last July, but final agreement has been held up by differences over the exchange of data on missile performance and defence systems.The two presidents' remarks will be as closely scrutinised as the treaty text, for signs on the future of arms control.\"The question is: What do the presidents say about the next steps,\" said Daryl Kimball, the head of the Arms Control Association in Washington.\"The two sides share a common goal to pursue further nuclear arms cuts. A common path has not yet been established. I would hope the two presidents will say we will continue our consultations on further nuclear arms reductions.\"Advocates of multilateral disarmament hope this deal will quickly be followed by talks on a far more reaching treaty that will bring each sides total number of warheads to below 1000.Each side may also make unilateral statements on the future of missile defence, which is not part of the treaty, but which held up its signing. Romania's agreement in January to host a new US missile defence system almost derailed the START talks.The Russians could opt to declare a proviso that if the American missile defence scheme grew to the point that it infringed its vital national security interests, it reserved the right to withdraw from the new START treaty.Some US senators have vowed to oppose ratification of the treaty if that happens, but arms control advocates point out that a similar declaration accompanied the original START.John Kerry, the chairman of the Senate foreign relations committee said he discussed the agreement with President Obama yesterday was planning to hold hearings on the new treaty in the week beginning on April 4.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Nuclear weapons", "US news", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "Europe"], "title": "Russia claims breakthrough in historic nuclear reduction agreement with US"},{"date": "2010-03-26T00:05:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "One might have thought that an agreement with Russia on cutting the stockpile of nuclear weapons would have been widely welcomed in Washington. This is, after all, arms control rather than disarmament, and cutting the number of warheads each side is allowed to have from 2,200 to between 1,500 and 1,675 can hardly be considered appeasement. But no, before the details of the deal have even been released, all 41 Republicans senators have put on record their determination to block ratification (which, being a treaty, requires 67 votes and thus seven Republican ones) unless the US \"modernises\" its ICBM force and delinks offensive weapons with missile defence. As the agreement with Russia has only been reached by recognising the relationship that exists between offensive weapons and missile defence, this condition alone is tantamount to tearing any new treaty up.There are more than 20,000 nuclear weapons around today, enough to convince former Republican secretaries of state like Henry Kissinger and George Shultz , that nuclear weapons are a liability to US security rather than an asset. This modest agreement with Russia is a first step in a year which will contain exponentially larger challenges: how to convince the 184 states that have signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT), but who don't have nuclear weapons, that the five signatories who have weapons are doing enough to bring along non-signatory nuclear-armed states such as India, Pakistan and Israel? President Barack Obama had originally hoped to have the successor to Start in his pocket and ratified before going to the review conference of the NPT, which this year will be dominated by fears of a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. While the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in Middle East has broad support, Israel has flatly rejected Egypt's demand to join the NPT as a non-weapons state. Egypt is determined to press its demand for an international conference in 2011 with both Iran and Israel at the table, and has threatened to withdraw its support for other areas of the treaty, should the United States go cool on the idea. And all this before Mr Obama attempts to pursue US ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty, the cornerstone of nuclear arms control.This is, to say the least, a crowded and complex agenda and one measure of how little progress was made in arms control and non-proliferation under the last two US presidential terms. Republican senators can ill afford to see the replacement to Start with their customary post-cold war myopia. Russia has had its own problems in negotiating this treaty. Not least of these are the repeated warnings from the Russian defence establishment that their conventional forces are now so weak, in relation to Nato's, and so lacking in global reach, that their nuclear arsenal is their only real defence. While there are many US exponents of a world free of nuclear weapons, there are for this reason, few Russian ones.It was thus all the more important for Mr Obama to reset relations with Moscow, and it is now right that his policy of engagement has produced his first major foreign policy dividend. Remember the fears that eastern European states expressed about the prospect of being left out in the cold by America's new strategic alliance with Moscow? Today Radek Sikorski, foreign minister of Poland, takes a somewhat softer line welcoming the prospect of a new agreement with Russia and looking forward to steep reductions in tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. A major arms control agreement with Russia is not being made at eastern Europe's expense. Quite the contrary, it enhances European security. The important thing now is for negotiations to start on a treaty that would make deep cuts in nuclear arsenals. This agreement has cemented the US dialogue with Russia, but it should not stop here.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "US news", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US-Russia nuclear deal: Two tribes don't go to war | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-18T11:13:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Hillary Clinton arrived in Moscow this morning for talks on nuclear arms reduction and the Middle East, amid signs that the Kremlin has raised fresh objections that could further delay the signing of a new US-Russia Start treaty.The US secretary of state is meeting Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, and will tomorrow attend a meeting iof the peace mediators who comprise the Middle East quartet \u2013 the European Union, the United Nations, the US and Russia. Clinton is also seeing the Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev.For almost a year, Russian and US teams have been negotiating a historic strategic arms treaty to replace the 1991 Start agreement, which expired in early December. Despite pronouncements from both sides that a deal is close, and could be signed as early as next month, the Russians now appear to be raising fresh objections.This morning, Boris Gryzlov, the speaker of Russia's pro-Kremlin parliament, said Moscow would refuse to ratify any new nuclear treaty unless there was an explicit link between nuclear arms reduction and the US's revised missile defence plans in Europe.\"Without it there is no chance the treaty could be ratified in the Duma,\" Gryzlov said.The White House believes the two issues are separate. US officials have privately expressed growing frustration with the Russians, who appear to reach agreement on key issues, only to raise fresh problems later. There is a suspicion that Moscow is deliberately dragging out the negotiating process.According to the New York Times, Barack Obama has telephoned Medvedev twice in the past three weeks, in a frantic effort to push the long-delayed negotiations over the finishing line. In the first call, the US president was surprised to hear Medvedev raise several new objections, including over the US's amended plans for a European missile defence system.Obama believed negotiators had already settled the issue in Geneva, the paper said.Last year, Obama announced he was shelving the Bush administration's plans to deploy a missile system in Poland and the Czech Republic, following fierce Russian objections, and as part of a \"reset\" in relations with the Kremlin. In January, the White House said elements of the system would be deployed in Romania.Clinton is hoping to seal a deal in time for a high-profile international summit on nuclear non-proliferation to be held in Washington in mid-April. Ukraine's president, Viktor Yanuokvych. has offered Kiev as a venue for the agreement to be signed.The White House is believed to prefer the Czech capital, Prague, where Obama set out his vision of a nuclear-free world in a major speech last year.The Middle East quartet is meeting in Moscow tonightfor dinner.There are formal negotiations tomorrow , to be attended by Clinton, Tony Blair, the quartet's Middle East envoy, the EU's new foreign policy chief, Lady Cathy Ahston, and the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, who is expected to travel to Israel and the Gaza Strip on Saturday and Sunday. The quartet is likely to offer strong support for US-backed proximity talks between Israel and the Palestinians.But the negotiations have been overshadowed by the unusual US-Israeli dispute over plans to build 1,600 Jewish homes in part of the occupied West Bank it annexed to Jerusalem. Clinton has described the announcement \u2013 made while the US vice-president, Joe Biden, was in Israel last week \u2013 as insulting.Washington hopes to win Moscow's backing for tougher sanctions against Iran over its nuclear programme, which the west suspects is intended to produce atomic weapons. Medvedev earlier this month promised support for \"smart\" sanctions against Tehran which are not aimed at civilians, but Moscow has long been reluctant to agree to punitive measures against a traditional ally and trading partner. China is also opposed to sanctions.", "tags": ["Russia", "US foreign policy", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Nuclear weapons", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Europe"], "title": "Hillary Clinton in Russia for nuclear and Middle East talks"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-04-21T17:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It's beyond argument, two weeks after the overthrow of Kyrgyzstan's president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, that Russia played a critical, possibly decisive role in his downfall. But as ethnic violence, score-settling, and political confusion continue to roil the impoverished central Asian country, the coming question is whether a clever-boots Kremlin has bitten off more than it can chew.Having tendered his handwritten resignation by fax to the interim government last week, Bakiyev insisted today, from the relative safety of Minsk, that he was still in charge. \"I will do everything to restore constitutional order \u2026 only death can stop me,\" he said dramatically. \"I call on international leaders not to recognise the authority of this illegitimate gang.\"Bakiyev's southern supporters, centred on Dzhalal-Abad in the Ferghana valley (where most residents are ethnic Uzbeks) are also stubbornly refusing to recognise the administration formed by former foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva. Meanwhile fighting broke out around the capital, Bishkek, this week involving minority ethnic Russians and Meskhetian Turks.Otunbayeva says she wants to create a parliamentary republic and hold free, democratic elections. That would be a welcome change. The Bakiyev era was blighted by repression, human rights abuses and corruption, with the exiled president accused of embezzling $200m. But it is uncertain whether she has the clout to hold the country together.Cohesion is not the only imponderable. The fact that Russia recognised the interim government within hours of the coup taking place, while the US and the EU have yet to do so, shows how the Kyrgyzstan upheaval is also turning conventional political calculation on its head.Vladimir Putin's Kremlin is not known for its support for pro-democracy movements in the former Soviet \"near abroad\", either in central Asia or the Caucasus. It has worked hard to reverse such tendencies \u2013 notably in Ukraine, which recently elected a pro-Moscow president and has now agreed to continue to host Russia's Black Sea fleet. Paradoxically, in Kyrgyzstan, it finds itself as foremost sponsor of a popular, anti-authoritarian revolution.Washington, on the other hand, has in theory promoted a \"freedom agenda\" in these same regions and the Middle East. Barack Obama is now under fire at home for placing strategic and security considerations ahead of Kyrgyz democratic self-determination, although George Bush did much the same.\"US policy toward Kyrgyzstan has focused almost exclusively on keeping open its military base at Manas [a key supply hub for Afghanistan],\" wrote David Kramer in Foreign Policy. \"Many who are now serving in the interim government still feel betrayed by the US for giving Bakiyev a free pass as long as Manas stayed open.\"According to analyst Tom Malinowski, Washington's duplicitous, self-interested approach is evident elsewhere in the region as it battles Russia and China for geopolitical advantage.\"US policymakers increasingly view central Asia as a transit point to somewhere else. It is a region through which oil and natural gas flow to Europe, reducing US allies' dependence on Russia. It is a region through which fuel, food and spare parts flow to US and Nato forces in Afghanistan,\" Malinowski said. Officials had coined a new name for the region, he added: the \"northern distribution network\".The way Russia encouraged and manipulated the political opposition to Bakiyev also confounds stereotypical behaviour. Bakiyev's authoritarianism did not worry the Kremlin but his perceived double-crossing of Russia did, so they used American-style \"soft power\" tools to undermine him.In the months before the uprising, financial assistance was withdrawn, Russian-language television and website outlets highlighted Bakiyev's alleged crimes, energy prices were forced up by tariff increases (as in Ukraine and Belarus), trade and banking regulations were tightened, and opposition figures were courted in Moscow. By the time the coup began, Bakiyev was already destabilised. This was an almost exact copy of US tactics preceding the Georgia and Ukraine \"colour revolutions\".Now Russia is rightly worried about what it has wrought. President Dmitri Medvedev warned recently of anarchy and a \"second Afghanistan\". This week the Russian military was told to be ready to protect ethnic Russians \u2013 20% of Kyrgyzstan's population.It probably won't come to direct intervention. But the downside for the Kremlin of its too-clever Kyrgyz coup is becoming clearer. A democratic Kyrgyzstan may prove less biddable than Moscow would wish. The level-headed Otunbayeva may yet refuse to evict the Americans from Manas. Political divisions may become lethally corrosive. And, most dangerous of all, ethnic violence combining with popular discontent and Islamist agitation in the Ferghana valley linking south Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, may spark a wider conflagration.It's happened before and it could happen again. Such are the perils of externally incited regime change.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia may regret Kyrgyzstan coup | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-04-21T17:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It's beyond argument, two weeks after the overthrow of Kyrgyzstan's president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, that Russia played a critical, possibly decisive role in his downfall. But as ethnic violence, score-settling, and political confusion continue to roil the impoverished central Asian country, the coming question is whether a clever-boots Kremlin has bitten off more than it can chew.Having tendered his handwritten resignation by fax to the interim government last week, Bakiyev insisted today, from the relative safety of Minsk, that he was still in charge. \"I will do everything to restore constitutional order \u2026 only death can stop me,\" he said dramatically. \"I call on international leaders not to recognise the authority of this illegitimate gang.\"Bakiyev's southern supporters, centred on Dzhalal-Abad in the Ferghana valley (where most residents are ethnic Uzbeks) are also stubbornly refusing to recognise the administration formed by former foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva. Meanwhile fighting broke out around the capital, Bishkek, this week involving minority ethnic Russians and Meskhetian Turks.Otunbayeva says she wants to create a parliamentary republic and hold free, democratic elections. That would be a welcome change. The Bakiyev era was blighted by repression, human rights abuses and corruption, with the exiled president accused of embezzling $200m. But it is uncertain whether she has the clout to hold the country together.Cohesion is not the only imponderable. The fact that Russia recognised the interim government within hours of the coup taking place, while the US and the EU have yet to do so, shows how the Kyrgyzstan upheaval is also turning conventional political calculation on its head.Vladimir Putin's Kremlin is not known for its support for pro-democracy movements in the former Soviet \"near abroad\", either in central Asia or the Caucasus. It has worked hard to reverse such tendencies \u2013 notably in Ukraine, which recently elected a pro-Moscow president and has now agreed to continue to host Russia's Black Sea fleet. Paradoxically, in Kyrgyzstan, it finds itself as foremost sponsor of a popular, anti-authoritarian revolution.Washington, on the other hand, has in theory promoted a \"freedom agenda\" in these same regions and the Middle East. Barack Obama is now under fire at home for placing strategic and security considerations ahead of Kyrgyz democratic self-determination, although George Bush did much the same.\"US policy toward Kyrgyzstan has focused almost exclusively on keeping open its military base at Manas [a key supply hub for Afghanistan],\" wrote David Kramer in Foreign Policy. \"Many who are now serving in the interim government still feel betrayed by the US for giving Bakiyev a free pass as long as Manas stayed open.\"According to analyst Tom Malinowski, Washington's duplicitous, self-interested approach is evident elsewhere in the region as it battles Russia and China for geopolitical advantage.\"US policymakers increasingly view central Asia as a transit point to somewhere else. It is a region through which oil and natural gas flow to Europe, reducing US allies' dependence on Russia. It is a region through which fuel, food and spare parts flow to US and Nato forces in Afghanistan,\" Malinowski said. Officials had coined a new name for the region, he added: the \"northern distribution network\".The way Russia encouraged and manipulated the political opposition to Bakiyev also confounds stereotypical behaviour. Bakiyev's authoritarianism did not worry the Kremlin but his perceived double-crossing of Russia did, so they used American-style \"soft power\" tools to undermine him.In the months before the uprising, financial assistance was withdrawn, Russian-language television and website outlets highlighted Bakiyev's alleged crimes, energy prices were forced up by tariff increases (as in Ukraine and Belarus), trade and banking regulations were tightened, and opposition figures were courted in Moscow. By the time the coup began, Bakiyev was already destabilised. This was an almost exact copy of US tactics preceding the Georgia and Ukraine \"colour revolutions\".Now Russia is rightly worried about what it has wrought. President Dmitri Medvedev warned recently of anarchy and a \"second Afghanistan\". This week the Russian military was told to be ready to protect ethnic Russians \u2013 20% of Kyrgyzstan's population.It probably won't come to direct intervention. But the downside for the Kremlin of its too-clever Kyrgyz coup is becoming clearer. A democratic Kyrgyzstan may prove less biddable than Moscow would wish. The level-headed Otunbayeva may yet refuse to evict the Americans from Manas. Political divisions may become lethally corrosive. And, most dangerous of all, ethnic violence combining with popular discontent and Islamist agitation in the Ferghana valley linking south Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, may spark a wider conflagration.It's happened before and it could happen again. Such are the perils of externally incited regime change.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia may regret Kyrgyzstan coup | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-04-28T15:30:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today posted documents concerning the massacre of Polish prisoners in Katyn on a government website, and said it would release further archive material dealing with Soviet-era repression.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, said he had personally ordered the online publication of the archive on the massacre, which took place 70 years ago when Soviet secret police shot 22,000 Polish officers near Katyn in western Russia.The documents have been published before in Poland and Russia. But the decision to publish them online is the latest positive gesture by Moscow to Warsaw after this month's air disaster that killed Poland's president, Lech Kaczynski.The crash provoked an unprecedented Russian reaction, with Medvedev attending Kaczynski's funeral in Krakow and the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, leading the investigation into why Kaczynski's plane went down.Medvedev suggested Russia would now release further classified documents on the massacre. \"The Katyn archives are open. [But] there are certain materials that have not yet been forwarded to our Polish partners,\" Medvedev said.Pledging greater openness, he added: \"I have ordered that appropriate work be carried out and materials that are interesting to our Polish colleagues be handed over to them.\"Human rights groups say that Russia has refused to hand over the most sensitive archive materials \u2013 which identify individual officers from the NKVD, the pre-KGB secret police \u2013 who carried out the killings.Today, the head of Russia's state archives agency, Rosarchiv, Andrei Artizov, said the documents came from the top-secret archive of the politburo. They include a letter from Lavrenti Beria, the head of the NKVD, written in March 1940.In it, Beria describes the Polish PoWs as \"incorrigible enemies of Soviet power\" and urges their liquidation. The archive includes the signatures of Stalin and other politburo members on a resolution authorising the murders \u2013 which Stalin subsequently blamed on the Nazis.Artizov said all Soviet leaders after Stalin were told the truth about Katyn. He said the murders were carried out at three distinct sites: Pyatikhatka, near Kharkov; Katyn, near Smolensk; and Mednoye in Russia's Tver region. The largest number of Polish officers were shot dead in Mednoye, he said.Historians said that the decision to post the documents on the internet was an important step to enable Russians to come to terms with their past.Andrzej Kunert, a Polish historian, said the Kremlin's move was significant. \"We can call the decision a breakthrough.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Poland", "War crimes", "Second world war", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Internet", "Technology", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia posts Katyn massacre documents online"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-04-21T17:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It's beyond argument, two weeks after the overthrow of Kyrgyzstan's president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, that Russia played a critical, possibly decisive role in his downfall. But as ethnic violence, score-settling, and political confusion continue to roil the impoverished central Asian country, the coming question is whether a clever-boots Kremlin has bitten off more than it can chew.Having tendered his handwritten resignation by fax to the interim government last week, Bakiyev insisted today, from the relative safety of Minsk, that he was still in charge. \"I will do everything to restore constitutional order \u2026 only death can stop me,\" he said dramatically. \"I call on international leaders not to recognise the authority of this illegitimate gang.\"Bakiyev's southern supporters, centred on Dzhalal-Abad in the Ferghana valley (where most residents are ethnic Uzbeks) are also stubbornly refusing to recognise the administration formed by former foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva. Meanwhile fighting broke out around the capital, Bishkek, this week involving minority ethnic Russians and Meskhetian Turks.Otunbayeva says she wants to create a parliamentary republic and hold free, democratic elections. That would be a welcome change. The Bakiyev era was blighted by repression, human rights abuses and corruption, with the exiled president accused of embezzling $200m. But it is uncertain whether she has the clout to hold the country together.Cohesion is not the only imponderable. The fact that Russia recognised the interim government within hours of the coup taking place, while the US and the EU have yet to do so, shows how the Kyrgyzstan upheaval is also turning conventional political calculation on its head.Vladimir Putin's Kremlin is not known for its support for pro-democracy movements in the former Soviet \"near abroad\", either in central Asia or the Caucasus. It has worked hard to reverse such tendencies \u2013 notably in Ukraine, which recently elected a pro-Moscow president and has now agreed to continue to host Russia's Black Sea fleet. Paradoxically, in Kyrgyzstan, it finds itself as foremost sponsor of a popular, anti-authoritarian revolution.Washington, on the other hand, has in theory promoted a \"freedom agenda\" in these same regions and the Middle East. Barack Obama is now under fire at home for placing strategic and security considerations ahead of Kyrgyz democratic self-determination, although George Bush did much the same.\"US policy toward Kyrgyzstan has focused almost exclusively on keeping open its military base at Manas [a key supply hub for Afghanistan],\" wrote David Kramer in Foreign Policy. \"Many who are now serving in the interim government still feel betrayed by the US for giving Bakiyev a free pass as long as Manas stayed open.\"According to analyst Tom Malinowski, Washington's duplicitous, self-interested approach is evident elsewhere in the region as it battles Russia and China for geopolitical advantage.\"US policymakers increasingly view central Asia as a transit point to somewhere else. It is a region through which oil and natural gas flow to Europe, reducing US allies' dependence on Russia. It is a region through which fuel, food and spare parts flow to US and Nato forces in Afghanistan,\" Malinowski said. Officials had coined a new name for the region, he added: the \"northern distribution network\".The way Russia encouraged and manipulated the political opposition to Bakiyev also confounds stereotypical behaviour. Bakiyev's authoritarianism did not worry the Kremlin but his perceived double-crossing of Russia did, so they used American-style \"soft power\" tools to undermine him.In the months before the uprising, financial assistance was withdrawn, Russian-language television and website outlets highlighted Bakiyev's alleged crimes, energy prices were forced up by tariff increases (as in Ukraine and Belarus), trade and banking regulations were tightened, and opposition figures were courted in Moscow. By the time the coup began, Bakiyev was already destabilised. This was an almost exact copy of US tactics preceding the Georgia and Ukraine \"colour revolutions\".Now Russia is rightly worried about what it has wrought. President Dmitri Medvedev warned recently of anarchy and a \"second Afghanistan\". This week the Russian military was told to be ready to protect ethnic Russians \u2013 20% of Kyrgyzstan's population.It probably won't come to direct intervention. But the downside for the Kremlin of its too-clever Kyrgyz coup is becoming clearer. A democratic Kyrgyzstan may prove less biddable than Moscow would wish. The level-headed Otunbayeva may yet refuse to evict the Americans from Manas. Political divisions may become lethally corrosive. And, most dangerous of all, ethnic violence combining with popular discontent and Islamist agitation in the Ferghana valley linking south Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, may spark a wider conflagration.It's happened before and it could happen again. Such are the perils of externally incited regime change.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia may regret Kyrgyzstan coup | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-04-28T15:30:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today posted documents concerning the massacre of Polish prisoners in Katyn on a government website, and said it would release further archive material dealing with Soviet-era repression.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, said he had personally ordered the online publication of the archive on the massacre, which took place 70 years ago when Soviet secret police shot 22,000 Polish officers near Katyn in western Russia.The documents have been published before in Poland and Russia. But the decision to publish them online is the latest positive gesture by Moscow to Warsaw after this month's air disaster that killed Poland's president, Lech Kaczynski.The crash provoked an unprecedented Russian reaction, with Medvedev attending Kaczynski's funeral in Krakow and the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, leading the investigation into why Kaczynski's plane went down.Medvedev suggested Russia would now release further classified documents on the massacre. \"The Katyn archives are open. [But] there are certain materials that have not yet been forwarded to our Polish partners,\" Medvedev said.Pledging greater openness, he added: \"I have ordered that appropriate work be carried out and materials that are interesting to our Polish colleagues be handed over to them.\"Human rights groups say that Russia has refused to hand over the most sensitive archive materials \u2013 which identify individual officers from the NKVD, the pre-KGB secret police \u2013 who carried out the killings.Today, the head of Russia's state archives agency, Rosarchiv, Andrei Artizov, said the documents came from the top-secret archive of the politburo. They include a letter from Lavrenti Beria, the head of the NKVD, written in March 1940.In it, Beria describes the Polish PoWs as \"incorrigible enemies of Soviet power\" and urges their liquidation. The archive includes the signatures of Stalin and other politburo members on a resolution authorising the murders \u2013 which Stalin subsequently blamed on the Nazis.Artizov said all Soviet leaders after Stalin were told the truth about Katyn. He said the murders were carried out at three distinct sites: Pyatikhatka, near Kharkov; Katyn, near Smolensk; and Mednoye in Russia's Tver region. The largest number of Polish officers were shot dead in Mednoye, he said.Historians said that the decision to post the documents on the internet was an important step to enable Russians to come to terms with their past.Andrzej Kunert, a Polish historian, said the Kremlin's move was significant. \"We can call the decision a breakthrough.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Poland", "War crimes", "Second world war", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Internet", "Technology", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia posts Katyn massacre documents online"},{"date": "2010-04-23T16:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A new row has erupted in the Caucasus after Georgia's president blamed Russia for a foiled attempt last month to smuggle highly enriched uranium across the volatile border.Moscow today accused Mikheil Saakashvili of lying after he declared that such nuclear seizures have been \"mostly from the direction of Russia\".\"This is not the first time Saakashvili has been caught red-handed while making false statements,\" the Russian foreign ministry spokesman Igor Lyakin-Frolov said, according to the Associated Press. \"He shouldn't present a lie as the truth.\"The row has inflamed longstanding tensions that erupted into open warfare in 2008 over control of South Ossetia, a pro-Russian separatist enclave inside Georgia.While not explicitly pointing the finger at Moscow, Saakashvili linked the most recent case \u2013 and previous uranium smuggling incidents in 2003 and 2006 \u2013 to the continued Russian military presence in South Ossetia and another enclave, Abkhazia, since the conflict. All but one of the border crossings between Russia and Georgia run through the two enclaves.\"If you are legally in occupation then you are responsible for controlling proliferation,\" Saakashvili told AP this week.Georgian officials have told the Guardian the seized uranium was highly enriched \u2013 \"over 70%\" \u2013 making it potentially suitable for a nuclear weapon, but the amount involved was small, measured in grams rather than kilograms. About 25kg would be needed for a warhead made from highly enriched uranium.The officials said the gang had been caught in a sting operation, and they had told would-be buyers it was a sample of a bigger batch.The news appears to echo the 2006 case of Oleg Khinsagov, a petty smuggler from North Ossetia \u2013 a Russian territory across the international border from South Ossetia. Khinsagov had also claimed the sample was part of a larger quantity. If the latest seized uranium proves to be from the same sample, it would add weight to fears that a significant quantity of fissile material may have been stolen after the fall of the Soviet Union. Not all the Soviet arsenal of nuclear material has been accounted for. It is unclear whether that is because some was taken or because of weaknesses in Soviet-era accounting.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Georgia clash over uranium"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-04-21T17:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It's beyond argument, two weeks after the overthrow of Kyrgyzstan's president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, that Russia played a critical, possibly decisive role in his downfall. But as ethnic violence, score-settling, and political confusion continue to roil the impoverished central Asian country, the coming question is whether a clever-boots Kremlin has bitten off more than it can chew.Having tendered his handwritten resignation by fax to the interim government last week, Bakiyev insisted today, from the relative safety of Minsk, that he was still in charge. \"I will do everything to restore constitutional order \u2026 only death can stop me,\" he said dramatically. \"I call on international leaders not to recognise the authority of this illegitimate gang.\"Bakiyev's southern supporters, centred on Dzhalal-Abad in the Ferghana valley (where most residents are ethnic Uzbeks) are also stubbornly refusing to recognise the administration formed by former foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva. Meanwhile fighting broke out around the capital, Bishkek, this week involving minority ethnic Russians and Meskhetian Turks.Otunbayeva says she wants to create a parliamentary republic and hold free, democratic elections. That would be a welcome change. The Bakiyev era was blighted by repression, human rights abuses and corruption, with the exiled president accused of embezzling $200m. But it is uncertain whether she has the clout to hold the country together.Cohesion is not the only imponderable. The fact that Russia recognised the interim government within hours of the coup taking place, while the US and the EU have yet to do so, shows how the Kyrgyzstan upheaval is also turning conventional political calculation on its head.Vladimir Putin's Kremlin is not known for its support for pro-democracy movements in the former Soviet \"near abroad\", either in central Asia or the Caucasus. It has worked hard to reverse such tendencies \u2013 notably in Ukraine, which recently elected a pro-Moscow president and has now agreed to continue to host Russia's Black Sea fleet. Paradoxically, in Kyrgyzstan, it finds itself as foremost sponsor of a popular, anti-authoritarian revolution.Washington, on the other hand, has in theory promoted a \"freedom agenda\" in these same regions and the Middle East. Barack Obama is now under fire at home for placing strategic and security considerations ahead of Kyrgyz democratic self-determination, although George Bush did much the same.\"US policy toward Kyrgyzstan has focused almost exclusively on keeping open its military base at Manas [a key supply hub for Afghanistan],\" wrote David Kramer in Foreign Policy. \"Many who are now serving in the interim government still feel betrayed by the US for giving Bakiyev a free pass as long as Manas stayed open.\"According to analyst Tom Malinowski, Washington's duplicitous, self-interested approach is evident elsewhere in the region as it battles Russia and China for geopolitical advantage.\"US policymakers increasingly view central Asia as a transit point to somewhere else. It is a region through which oil and natural gas flow to Europe, reducing US allies' dependence on Russia. It is a region through which fuel, food and spare parts flow to US and Nato forces in Afghanistan,\" Malinowski said. Officials had coined a new name for the region, he added: the \"northern distribution network\".The way Russia encouraged and manipulated the political opposition to Bakiyev also confounds stereotypical behaviour. Bakiyev's authoritarianism did not worry the Kremlin but his perceived double-crossing of Russia did, so they used American-style \"soft power\" tools to undermine him.In the months before the uprising, financial assistance was withdrawn, Russian-language television and website outlets highlighted Bakiyev's alleged crimes, energy prices were forced up by tariff increases (as in Ukraine and Belarus), trade and banking regulations were tightened, and opposition figures were courted in Moscow. By the time the coup began, Bakiyev was already destabilised. This was an almost exact copy of US tactics preceding the Georgia and Ukraine \"colour revolutions\".Now Russia is rightly worried about what it has wrought. President Dmitri Medvedev warned recently of anarchy and a \"second Afghanistan\". This week the Russian military was told to be ready to protect ethnic Russians \u2013 20% of Kyrgyzstan's population.It probably won't come to direct intervention. But the downside for the Kremlin of its too-clever Kyrgyz coup is becoming clearer. A democratic Kyrgyzstan may prove less biddable than Moscow would wish. The level-headed Otunbayeva may yet refuse to evict the Americans from Manas. Political divisions may become lethally corrosive. And, most dangerous of all, ethnic violence combining with popular discontent and Islamist agitation in the Ferghana valley linking south Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, may spark a wider conflagration.It's happened before and it could happen again. Such are the perils of externally incited regime change.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia may regret Kyrgyzstan coup | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-04-28T15:30:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today posted documents concerning the massacre of Polish prisoners in Katyn on a government website, and said it would release further archive material dealing with Soviet-era repression.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, said he had personally ordered the online publication of the archive on the massacre, which took place 70 years ago when Soviet secret police shot 22,000 Polish officers near Katyn in western Russia.The documents have been published before in Poland and Russia. But the decision to publish them online is the latest positive gesture by Moscow to Warsaw after this month's air disaster that killed Poland's president, Lech Kaczynski.The crash provoked an unprecedented Russian reaction, with Medvedev attending Kaczynski's funeral in Krakow and the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, leading the investigation into why Kaczynski's plane went down.Medvedev suggested Russia would now release further classified documents on the massacre. \"The Katyn archives are open. [But] there are certain materials that have not yet been forwarded to our Polish partners,\" Medvedev said.Pledging greater openness, he added: \"I have ordered that appropriate work be carried out and materials that are interesting to our Polish colleagues be handed over to them.\"Human rights groups say that Russia has refused to hand over the most sensitive archive materials \u2013 which identify individual officers from the NKVD, the pre-KGB secret police \u2013 who carried out the killings.Today, the head of Russia's state archives agency, Rosarchiv, Andrei Artizov, said the documents came from the top-secret archive of the politburo. They include a letter from Lavrenti Beria, the head of the NKVD, written in March 1940.In it, Beria describes the Polish PoWs as \"incorrigible enemies of Soviet power\" and urges their liquidation. The archive includes the signatures of Stalin and other politburo members on a resolution authorising the murders \u2013 which Stalin subsequently blamed on the Nazis.Artizov said all Soviet leaders after Stalin were told the truth about Katyn. He said the murders were carried out at three distinct sites: Pyatikhatka, near Kharkov; Katyn, near Smolensk; and Mednoye in Russia's Tver region. The largest number of Polish officers were shot dead in Mednoye, he said.Historians said that the decision to post the documents on the internet was an important step to enable Russians to come to terms with their past.Andrzej Kunert, a Polish historian, said the Kremlin's move was significant. \"We can call the decision a breakthrough.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Poland", "War crimes", "Second world war", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Internet", "Technology", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia posts Katyn massacre documents online"},{"date": "2010-04-23T16:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A new row has erupted in the Caucasus after Georgia's president blamed Russia for a foiled attempt last month to smuggle highly enriched uranium across the volatile border.Moscow today accused Mikheil Saakashvili of lying after he declared that such nuclear seizures have been \"mostly from the direction of Russia\".\"This is not the first time Saakashvili has been caught red-handed while making false statements,\" the Russian foreign ministry spokesman Igor Lyakin-Frolov said, according to the Associated Press. \"He shouldn't present a lie as the truth.\"The row has inflamed longstanding tensions that erupted into open warfare in 2008 over control of South Ossetia, a pro-Russian separatist enclave inside Georgia.While not explicitly pointing the finger at Moscow, Saakashvili linked the most recent case \u2013 and previous uranium smuggling incidents in 2003 and 2006 \u2013 to the continued Russian military presence in South Ossetia and another enclave, Abkhazia, since the conflict. All but one of the border crossings between Russia and Georgia run through the two enclaves.\"If you are legally in occupation then you are responsible for controlling proliferation,\" Saakashvili told AP this week.Georgian officials have told the Guardian the seized uranium was highly enriched \u2013 \"over 70%\" \u2013 making it potentially suitable for a nuclear weapon, but the amount involved was small, measured in grams rather than kilograms. About 25kg would be needed for a warhead made from highly enriched uranium.The officials said the gang had been caught in a sting operation, and they had told would-be buyers it was a sample of a bigger batch.The news appears to echo the 2006 case of Oleg Khinsagov, a petty smuggler from North Ossetia \u2013 a Russian territory across the international border from South Ossetia. Khinsagov had also claimed the sample was part of a larger quantity. If the latest seized uranium proves to be from the same sample, it would add weight to fears that a significant quantity of fissile material may have been stolen after the fall of the Soviet Union. Not all the Soviet arsenal of nuclear material has been accounted for. It is unclear whether that is because some was taken or because of weaknesses in Soviet-era accounting.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Georgia clash over uranium"},{"date": "2010-04-08T09:17:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The US president, Barack Obama, and Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian leader, today signed an arms treaty that will slash their respective nuclear arsenals by a third.The two men shook hands to applause after signing what Obama called a historic agreement in the opulent setting of Prague castle in the Czech Republic. Obama said the new agreement made the US and the world more secure and helped stopped the drift in US-Russia relations.\"Together we've stopped that drift,\" Obama said, adding that the agreement was a \"milestone for US-Russia relations\".He acknowledged, however, that the new agreement was \"just one step on a longer journey\" and said it has set the stage for further cuts. There was also a stern message for Iran as Obama said the world would not tolerate actions from countries that flouted the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and threatened collective security. Medvedev echoed Obama's concerns, saying that the world could not turn a blind eye to Iran, which he said had not responded to \"many constructive proposals\". He hinted that Russia would be open to further sanctions against Tehran.The new treaty will cut American and Russian strategic nuclear warheads to 1,550 over seven years, about a third less than the 2,200 currently allowed.Obama returned to Prague one year after he outlined his vision before an enthusiastic crowd for a world without nuclear weapons. The speech helped him win the Nobel peace prize, but Obama has acknowledged that eliminating nuclear weapons is unlikely to be achieved during his lifetime.The agreement to reduce nuclear warheads by a third succeeds the 1991 strategic arms reduction treaty (Start), which expired in December. It will have to be ratified by the US Senate \u2013 where conservative Republicans can be expected to give it a rough ride \u2013 and the Russian parliament.In addition to the warhead limit, the US and Russia must cut their total land, sea and air-based launchers to 800 each, and no more than 700 actually deployed within seven years. While that will leave plenty of nuclear weapons to destroy the world several times over, it marks a big drop from the total of 19,000 strategic warheads both sides deployed during the cold war.Obama wants to move for even deeper cuts but faces Russian reluctance because of American plans to build a missile defence system in Europe to counter a possible Iranian threat. Russia argues that antiballistic missile systems could neutralise its smaller arsenal.Even as Obama pushes for deep cuts in nuclear weapons, the Washington Post reported that the Pentagon is developing a weapon to plug the gap left by nuclear warheads: missiles armed with conventional warheads that could strike anywhere in the world in less than an hour. US military officials say the intercontinental ballistic missiles, known as prompt global strike weapons, are a necessary new form of deterrence against terrorist networks.Obama will have to balance his desire for deep cuts against the more immediate goal of keeping Russia on side to ratchet up the pressure on Iran and its suspected nuclear weapons programme. The US is seeking another round of sanctions against Tehran and Obama is also courting support from China, which recently signalled its willingness to adopt a tougher line towards Iran.Obama's trip to Prague is part of an intensive round of nuclear diplomacy. On Tuesday, the US released the results of a comprehensive nuclear strategy review in which the US committed itself for the first time not to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear states provided that they are party to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and in compliance with their nuclear non-proliferation obligations \u2013 a caveat that excludes North Korea and Iran.Next week, Obama welcomes to Washington the leaders of 46 countries, including the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, for a summit meeting on nuclear security.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Czech Republic", "US news", "Russia", "US national security", "World news", "Weapons technology", "Science", "Europe"], "title": "Barack Obama signs nuclear treaty with Russia"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-04-21T17:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It's beyond argument, two weeks after the overthrow of Kyrgyzstan's president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, that Russia played a critical, possibly decisive role in his downfall. But as ethnic violence, score-settling, and political confusion continue to roil the impoverished central Asian country, the coming question is whether a clever-boots Kremlin has bitten off more than it can chew.Having tendered his handwritten resignation by fax to the interim government last week, Bakiyev insisted today, from the relative safety of Minsk, that he was still in charge. \"I will do everything to restore constitutional order \u2026 only death can stop me,\" he said dramatically. \"I call on international leaders not to recognise the authority of this illegitimate gang.\"Bakiyev's southern supporters, centred on Dzhalal-Abad in the Ferghana valley (where most residents are ethnic Uzbeks) are also stubbornly refusing to recognise the administration formed by former foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva. Meanwhile fighting broke out around the capital, Bishkek, this week involving minority ethnic Russians and Meskhetian Turks.Otunbayeva says she wants to create a parliamentary republic and hold free, democratic elections. That would be a welcome change. The Bakiyev era was blighted by repression, human rights abuses and corruption, with the exiled president accused of embezzling $200m. But it is uncertain whether she has the clout to hold the country together.Cohesion is not the only imponderable. The fact that Russia recognised the interim government within hours of the coup taking place, while the US and the EU have yet to do so, shows how the Kyrgyzstan upheaval is also turning conventional political calculation on its head.Vladimir Putin's Kremlin is not known for its support for pro-democracy movements in the former Soviet \"near abroad\", either in central Asia or the Caucasus. It has worked hard to reverse such tendencies \u2013 notably in Ukraine, which recently elected a pro-Moscow president and has now agreed to continue to host Russia's Black Sea fleet. Paradoxically, in Kyrgyzstan, it finds itself as foremost sponsor of a popular, anti-authoritarian revolution.Washington, on the other hand, has in theory promoted a \"freedom agenda\" in these same regions and the Middle East. Barack Obama is now under fire at home for placing strategic and security considerations ahead of Kyrgyz democratic self-determination, although George Bush did much the same.\"US policy toward Kyrgyzstan has focused almost exclusively on keeping open its military base at Manas [a key supply hub for Afghanistan],\" wrote David Kramer in Foreign Policy. \"Many who are now serving in the interim government still feel betrayed by the US for giving Bakiyev a free pass as long as Manas stayed open.\"According to analyst Tom Malinowski, Washington's duplicitous, self-interested approach is evident elsewhere in the region as it battles Russia and China for geopolitical advantage.\"US policymakers increasingly view central Asia as a transit point to somewhere else. It is a region through which oil and natural gas flow to Europe, reducing US allies' dependence on Russia. It is a region through which fuel, food and spare parts flow to US and Nato forces in Afghanistan,\" Malinowski said. Officials had coined a new name for the region, he added: the \"northern distribution network\".The way Russia encouraged and manipulated the political opposition to Bakiyev also confounds stereotypical behaviour. Bakiyev's authoritarianism did not worry the Kremlin but his perceived double-crossing of Russia did, so they used American-style \"soft power\" tools to undermine him.In the months before the uprising, financial assistance was withdrawn, Russian-language television and website outlets highlighted Bakiyev's alleged crimes, energy prices were forced up by tariff increases (as in Ukraine and Belarus), trade and banking regulations were tightened, and opposition figures were courted in Moscow. By the time the coup began, Bakiyev was already destabilised. This was an almost exact copy of US tactics preceding the Georgia and Ukraine \"colour revolutions\".Now Russia is rightly worried about what it has wrought. President Dmitri Medvedev warned recently of anarchy and a \"second Afghanistan\". This week the Russian military was told to be ready to protect ethnic Russians \u2013 20% of Kyrgyzstan's population.It probably won't come to direct intervention. But the downside for the Kremlin of its too-clever Kyrgyz coup is becoming clearer. A democratic Kyrgyzstan may prove less biddable than Moscow would wish. The level-headed Otunbayeva may yet refuse to evict the Americans from Manas. Political divisions may become lethally corrosive. And, most dangerous of all, ethnic violence combining with popular discontent and Islamist agitation in the Ferghana valley linking south Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, may spark a wider conflagration.It's happened before and it could happen again. Such are the perils of externally incited regime change.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia may regret Kyrgyzstan coup | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-04-28T15:30:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today posted documents concerning the massacre of Polish prisoners in Katyn on a government website, and said it would release further archive material dealing with Soviet-era repression.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, said he had personally ordered the online publication of the archive on the massacre, which took place 70 years ago when Soviet secret police shot 22,000 Polish officers near Katyn in western Russia.The documents have been published before in Poland and Russia. But the decision to publish them online is the latest positive gesture by Moscow to Warsaw after this month's air disaster that killed Poland's president, Lech Kaczynski.The crash provoked an unprecedented Russian reaction, with Medvedev attending Kaczynski's funeral in Krakow and the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, leading the investigation into why Kaczynski's plane went down.Medvedev suggested Russia would now release further classified documents on the massacre. \"The Katyn archives are open. [But] there are certain materials that have not yet been forwarded to our Polish partners,\" Medvedev said.Pledging greater openness, he added: \"I have ordered that appropriate work be carried out and materials that are interesting to our Polish colleagues be handed over to them.\"Human rights groups say that Russia has refused to hand over the most sensitive archive materials \u2013 which identify individual officers from the NKVD, the pre-KGB secret police \u2013 who carried out the killings.Today, the head of Russia's state archives agency, Rosarchiv, Andrei Artizov, said the documents came from the top-secret archive of the politburo. They include a letter from Lavrenti Beria, the head of the NKVD, written in March 1940.In it, Beria describes the Polish PoWs as \"incorrigible enemies of Soviet power\" and urges their liquidation. The archive includes the signatures of Stalin and other politburo members on a resolution authorising the murders \u2013 which Stalin subsequently blamed on the Nazis.Artizov said all Soviet leaders after Stalin were told the truth about Katyn. He said the murders were carried out at three distinct sites: Pyatikhatka, near Kharkov; Katyn, near Smolensk; and Mednoye in Russia's Tver region. The largest number of Polish officers were shot dead in Mednoye, he said.Historians said that the decision to post the documents on the internet was an important step to enable Russians to come to terms with their past.Andrzej Kunert, a Polish historian, said the Kremlin's move was significant. \"We can call the decision a breakthrough.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Poland", "War crimes", "Second world war", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Internet", "Technology", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia posts Katyn massacre documents online"},{"date": "2010-04-23T16:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A new row has erupted in the Caucasus after Georgia's president blamed Russia for a foiled attempt last month to smuggle highly enriched uranium across the volatile border.Moscow today accused Mikheil Saakashvili of lying after he declared that such nuclear seizures have been \"mostly from the direction of Russia\".\"This is not the first time Saakashvili has been caught red-handed while making false statements,\" the Russian foreign ministry spokesman Igor Lyakin-Frolov said, according to the Associated Press. \"He shouldn't present a lie as the truth.\"The row has inflamed longstanding tensions that erupted into open warfare in 2008 over control of South Ossetia, a pro-Russian separatist enclave inside Georgia.While not explicitly pointing the finger at Moscow, Saakashvili linked the most recent case \u2013 and previous uranium smuggling incidents in 2003 and 2006 \u2013 to the continued Russian military presence in South Ossetia and another enclave, Abkhazia, since the conflict. All but one of the border crossings between Russia and Georgia run through the two enclaves.\"If you are legally in occupation then you are responsible for controlling proliferation,\" Saakashvili told AP this week.Georgian officials have told the Guardian the seized uranium was highly enriched \u2013 \"over 70%\" \u2013 making it potentially suitable for a nuclear weapon, but the amount involved was small, measured in grams rather than kilograms. About 25kg would be needed for a warhead made from highly enriched uranium.The officials said the gang had been caught in a sting operation, and they had told would-be buyers it was a sample of a bigger batch.The news appears to echo the 2006 case of Oleg Khinsagov, a petty smuggler from North Ossetia \u2013 a Russian territory across the international border from South Ossetia. Khinsagov had also claimed the sample was part of a larger quantity. If the latest seized uranium proves to be from the same sample, it would add weight to fears that a significant quantity of fissile material may have been stolen after the fall of the Soviet Union. Not all the Soviet arsenal of nuclear material has been accounted for. It is unclear whether that is because some was taken or because of weaknesses in Soviet-era accounting.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Georgia clash over uranium"},{"date": "2010-04-08T09:17:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The US president, Barack Obama, and Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian leader, today signed an arms treaty that will slash their respective nuclear arsenals by a third.The two men shook hands to applause after signing what Obama called a historic agreement in the opulent setting of Prague castle in the Czech Republic. Obama said the new agreement made the US and the world more secure and helped stopped the drift in US-Russia relations.\"Together we've stopped that drift,\" Obama said, adding that the agreement was a \"milestone for US-Russia relations\".He acknowledged, however, that the new agreement was \"just one step on a longer journey\" and said it has set the stage for further cuts. There was also a stern message for Iran as Obama said the world would not tolerate actions from countries that flouted the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and threatened collective security. Medvedev echoed Obama's concerns, saying that the world could not turn a blind eye to Iran, which he said had not responded to \"many constructive proposals\". He hinted that Russia would be open to further sanctions against Tehran.The new treaty will cut American and Russian strategic nuclear warheads to 1,550 over seven years, about a third less than the 2,200 currently allowed.Obama returned to Prague one year after he outlined his vision before an enthusiastic crowd for a world without nuclear weapons. The speech helped him win the Nobel peace prize, but Obama has acknowledged that eliminating nuclear weapons is unlikely to be achieved during his lifetime.The agreement to reduce nuclear warheads by a third succeeds the 1991 strategic arms reduction treaty (Start), which expired in December. It will have to be ratified by the US Senate \u2013 where conservative Republicans can be expected to give it a rough ride \u2013 and the Russian parliament.In addition to the warhead limit, the US and Russia must cut their total land, sea and air-based launchers to 800 each, and no more than 700 actually deployed within seven years. While that will leave plenty of nuclear weapons to destroy the world several times over, it marks a big drop from the total of 19,000 strategic warheads both sides deployed during the cold war.Obama wants to move for even deeper cuts but faces Russian reluctance because of American plans to build a missile defence system in Europe to counter a possible Iranian threat. Russia argues that antiballistic missile systems could neutralise its smaller arsenal.Even as Obama pushes for deep cuts in nuclear weapons, the Washington Post reported that the Pentagon is developing a weapon to plug the gap left by nuclear warheads: missiles armed with conventional warheads that could strike anywhere in the world in less than an hour. US military officials say the intercontinental ballistic missiles, known as prompt global strike weapons, are a necessary new form of deterrence against terrorist networks.Obama will have to balance his desire for deep cuts against the more immediate goal of keeping Russia on side to ratchet up the pressure on Iran and its suspected nuclear weapons programme. The US is seeking another round of sanctions against Tehran and Obama is also courting support from China, which recently signalled its willingness to adopt a tougher line towards Iran.Obama's trip to Prague is part of an intensive round of nuclear diplomacy. On Tuesday, the US released the results of a comprehensive nuclear strategy review in which the US committed itself for the first time not to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear states provided that they are party to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and in compliance with their nuclear non-proliferation obligations \u2013 a caveat that excludes North Korea and Iran.Next week, Obama welcomes to Washington the leaders of 46 countries, including the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, for a summit meeting on nuclear security.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Czech Republic", "US news", "Russia", "US national security", "World news", "Weapons technology", "Science", "Europe"], "title": "Barack Obama signs nuclear treaty with Russia"},{"date": "2010-06-16T12:17:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain is to stop giving aid to China and Russia as part of a government plan to target financial help to the world's poorest nations, the development secretary, Andrew Mitchell, said today.Announcing a review into the 90 countries that currently share the \u00a32.9bn a year dispensed by the UK in bilateral aid, Mitchell said the money should be spent where it did most good.\"For some countries, aid is a vital safety net that saves lives every day. UK money should be spent helping the poorest people in the poorest countries, with every penny making a real difference by giving families the chance of a better future,\" the development secretary said.\"It is not justifiable to continue to give aid money to China and Russia. Other country programmes which are less effective will be closed or reduced and the savings will be redirected towards those countries where they can make the most difference.\"China, the world's third biggest and fastest growing economy, received just over \u00a340m a year from the UK in 2008-09. Russia, a member of the elite G8 group of developed nations, received \u00a3373,000.The government has ringfenced the Department for International Development from spending cuts and pledged to meet the legally binding target set by Labour of providing an aid budget of 0.7% of national output.Mitchell said he wanted redirected money to be spent on poverty reduction measures including programmes to improve maternal health, women's right to family planning and protection against deadly diseases such as malaria.The scrutiny of bilateral aid follows Mitchell's announcement last week that he will review how Britain's multilateral aid is spent by bodies such as the World Bank and the United Nations.Oxfam today said that Britain was the biggest single donor to the World Bank's International Development Association (IDA) \u2013 a fund for the very poorest nations \u2013 but had no guarantees that the money was being spent on poverty reduction. The bank is currently negotiating a new round of IDA funding, seeking at least $25bn (\u00a317bn) from rich countries.\"If the UK government is going to hand over money to the World Bank, it needs to make sure that the bank spends it on the poorest, and on helping countries reach the millennium development goals,\" said Elizabeth Stuart, Oxfam's head of relations with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. \"That's just basic accountability.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Russia", "World Bank", "Economics", "Business", "Politics", "Society", "Aid and development", "Katine", "Aid", "Europe", "Asia Pacific", "Andrew Mitchell"], "title": "UK terminates development aid to China and Russia"},{"date": "2010-05-07T15:01:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian forces have released 10 Somali pirates captured during a military operation to free an oil tanker this week, reversing an earlier pledge by President Dmitry Medvedev to punish them \"under the full force of naval law\".The move highlights the legal and logistical challenges faced by foreign navies targeting the pirate gangs who have turned the waters off Somalia into the most dangerous in the world.The hijackers were captured yesterday aboard the MV Moscow University, which was carrying oil worth $52m (\u00a335m) from Sudan to China when it was attacked in the Gulf of Aden a day earlier. It was the first time a Russian-owned and staffed ship had been hijacked off Somalia.After the 23-man crew cut the power and barricaded themselves in a safe room, a helicopter launched from a nearby Russian warship exchanged fire with the attackers, who quickly surrendered. One hijacker was killed.Medvedev praised the rescue operation, and promised tough action against the attackers. \"Perhaps we should return to the idea of creating an international court and other judicial instruments,\" Medvedev was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying. \"Until we get that, we'll have to do what our predecessors have done when they have encountered pirates.\"But today, the Russian defence ministry said that the captives had been disarmed and freed. Aleksei Kuznetsov, a ministry spokesman, said the release was \"connected to the imperfections in international law\". But he also suggested that the cost of prosecution and subsequent imprisonment was a factor. \"Why should we feed some pirates?\" he said.The release of pirates by foreign navies patrolling the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean is not uncommon. Somalia's lawlessness means handing suspects over for trial there is not possible, while there can also be problems with collecting evidence for trial abroad.But other foreign governments have prosecuted Somali pirates in cases where their own citizens and vessels were attacked. The sole surviving hijacker of the US-flagged tanker Maersk Alabama, whose crew members were dramatically freed by American special forces last year, is awaiting trial in New York, while 11 other would-be Somali hijackers were taken to the US in April after firing on American warships on patrol. Somali pirates also currently face trial in the Netherlands and France.More often, however, US and European navy ships have offloaded pirates in Kenya under an agreement with the government in Nairobi. But with its own legal and prison system under strain, Kenya now says it will only accept Somali prisoners on a case-by-case basis. Instead, the EU is looking for assistance from the Seychelles, whose maritime trade has been hit by Somali hijackings and which has announced plans to establish a regional centre to prosecute pirates.Roger Middleton, who researches piracy for the Chatham House thinktank in London, said that effective prosecutions were important, but were unlikely to discourage most pirate gangs.\"I'm not sure that jail time in the US or Kenya is enough of a disincentive to stop young Somalis who can make $20,000 or $30,000 in a year at sea,\" he said.", "tags": ["Piracy at sea", "Russia", "Somalia", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Russia frees captured Somali pirates"},{"date": "2010-04-21T17:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It's beyond argument, two weeks after the overthrow of Kyrgyzstan's president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, that Russia played a critical, possibly decisive role in his downfall. But as ethnic violence, score-settling, and political confusion continue to roil the impoverished central Asian country, the coming question is whether a clever-boots Kremlin has bitten off more than it can chew.Having tendered his handwritten resignation by fax to the interim government last week, Bakiyev insisted today, from the relative safety of Minsk, that he was still in charge. \"I will do everything to restore constitutional order \u2026 only death can stop me,\" he said dramatically. \"I call on international leaders not to recognise the authority of this illegitimate gang.\"Bakiyev's southern supporters, centred on Dzhalal-Abad in the Ferghana valley (where most residents are ethnic Uzbeks) are also stubbornly refusing to recognise the administration formed by former foreign minister Roza Otunbayeva. Meanwhile fighting broke out around the capital, Bishkek, this week involving minority ethnic Russians and Meskhetian Turks.Otunbayeva says she wants to create a parliamentary republic and hold free, democratic elections. That would be a welcome change. The Bakiyev era was blighted by repression, human rights abuses and corruption, with the exiled president accused of embezzling $200m. But it is uncertain whether she has the clout to hold the country together.Cohesion is not the only imponderable. The fact that Russia recognised the interim government within hours of the coup taking place, while the US and the EU have yet to do so, shows how the Kyrgyzstan upheaval is also turning conventional political calculation on its head.Vladimir Putin's Kremlin is not known for its support for pro-democracy movements in the former Soviet \"near abroad\", either in central Asia or the Caucasus. It has worked hard to reverse such tendencies \u2013 notably in Ukraine, which recently elected a pro-Moscow president and has now agreed to continue to host Russia's Black Sea fleet. Paradoxically, in Kyrgyzstan, it finds itself as foremost sponsor of a popular, anti-authoritarian revolution.Washington, on the other hand, has in theory promoted a \"freedom agenda\" in these same regions and the Middle East. Barack Obama is now under fire at home for placing strategic and security considerations ahead of Kyrgyz democratic self-determination, although George Bush did much the same.\"US policy toward Kyrgyzstan has focused almost exclusively on keeping open its military base at Manas [a key supply hub for Afghanistan],\" wrote David Kramer in Foreign Policy. \"Many who are now serving in the interim government still feel betrayed by the US for giving Bakiyev a free pass as long as Manas stayed open.\"According to analyst Tom Malinowski, Washington's duplicitous, self-interested approach is evident elsewhere in the region as it battles Russia and China for geopolitical advantage.\"US policymakers increasingly view central Asia as a transit point to somewhere else. It is a region through which oil and natural gas flow to Europe, reducing US allies' dependence on Russia. It is a region through which fuel, food and spare parts flow to US and Nato forces in Afghanistan,\" Malinowski said. Officials had coined a new name for the region, he added: the \"northern distribution network\".The way Russia encouraged and manipulated the political opposition to Bakiyev also confounds stereotypical behaviour. Bakiyev's authoritarianism did not worry the Kremlin but his perceived double-crossing of Russia did, so they used American-style \"soft power\" tools to undermine him.In the months before the uprising, financial assistance was withdrawn, Russian-language television and website outlets highlighted Bakiyev's alleged crimes, energy prices were forced up by tariff increases (as in Ukraine and Belarus), trade and banking regulations were tightened, and opposition figures were courted in Moscow. By the time the coup began, Bakiyev was already destabilised. This was an almost exact copy of US tactics preceding the Georgia and Ukraine \"colour revolutions\".Now Russia is rightly worried about what it has wrought. President Dmitri Medvedev warned recently of anarchy and a \"second Afghanistan\". This week the Russian military was told to be ready to protect ethnic Russians \u2013 20% of Kyrgyzstan's population.It probably won't come to direct intervention. But the downside for the Kremlin of its too-clever Kyrgyz coup is becoming clearer. A democratic Kyrgyzstan may prove less biddable than Moscow would wish. The level-headed Otunbayeva may yet refuse to evict the Americans from Manas. Political divisions may become lethally corrosive. And, most dangerous of all, ethnic violence combining with popular discontent and Islamist agitation in the Ferghana valley linking south Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, may spark a wider conflagration.It's happened before and it could happen again. Such are the perils of externally incited regime change.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia may regret Kyrgyzstan coup | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2010-04-28T15:30:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia today posted documents concerning the massacre of Polish prisoners in Katyn on a government website, and said it would release further archive material dealing with Soviet-era repression.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, said he had personally ordered the online publication of the archive on the massacre, which took place 70 years ago when Soviet secret police shot 22,000 Polish officers near Katyn in western Russia.The documents have been published before in Poland and Russia. But the decision to publish them online is the latest positive gesture by Moscow to Warsaw after this month's air disaster that killed Poland's president, Lech Kaczynski.The crash provoked an unprecedented Russian reaction, with Medvedev attending Kaczynski's funeral in Krakow and the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, leading the investigation into why Kaczynski's plane went down.Medvedev suggested Russia would now release further classified documents on the massacre. \"The Katyn archives are open. [But] there are certain materials that have not yet been forwarded to our Polish partners,\" Medvedev said.Pledging greater openness, he added: \"I have ordered that appropriate work be carried out and materials that are interesting to our Polish colleagues be handed over to them.\"Human rights groups say that Russia has refused to hand over the most sensitive archive materials \u2013 which identify individual officers from the NKVD, the pre-KGB secret police \u2013 who carried out the killings.Today, the head of Russia's state archives agency, Rosarchiv, Andrei Artizov, said the documents came from the top-secret archive of the politburo. They include a letter from Lavrenti Beria, the head of the NKVD, written in March 1940.In it, Beria describes the Polish PoWs as \"incorrigible enemies of Soviet power\" and urges their liquidation. The archive includes the signatures of Stalin and other politburo members on a resolution authorising the murders \u2013 which Stalin subsequently blamed on the Nazis.Artizov said all Soviet leaders after Stalin were told the truth about Katyn. He said the murders were carried out at three distinct sites: Pyatikhatka, near Kharkov; Katyn, near Smolensk; and Mednoye in Russia's Tver region. The largest number of Polish officers were shot dead in Mednoye, he said.Historians said that the decision to post the documents on the internet was an important step to enable Russians to come to terms with their past.Andrzej Kunert, a Polish historian, said the Kremlin's move was significant. \"We can call the decision a breakthrough.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Poland", "War crimes", "Second world war", "Human rights", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Internet", "Technology", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Russia posts Katyn massacre documents online"},{"date": "2010-04-23T16:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A new row has erupted in the Caucasus after Georgia's president blamed Russia for a foiled attempt last month to smuggle highly enriched uranium across the volatile border.Moscow today accused Mikheil Saakashvili of lying after he declared that such nuclear seizures have been \"mostly from the direction of Russia\".\"This is not the first time Saakashvili has been caught red-handed while making false statements,\" the Russian foreign ministry spokesman Igor Lyakin-Frolov said, according to the Associated Press. \"He shouldn't present a lie as the truth.\"The row has inflamed longstanding tensions that erupted into open warfare in 2008 over control of South Ossetia, a pro-Russian separatist enclave inside Georgia.While not explicitly pointing the finger at Moscow, Saakashvili linked the most recent case \u2013 and previous uranium smuggling incidents in 2003 and 2006 \u2013 to the continued Russian military presence in South Ossetia and another enclave, Abkhazia, since the conflict. All but one of the border crossings between Russia and Georgia run through the two enclaves.\"If you are legally in occupation then you are responsible for controlling proliferation,\" Saakashvili told AP this week.Georgian officials have told the Guardian the seized uranium was highly enriched \u2013 \"over 70%\" \u2013 making it potentially suitable for a nuclear weapon, but the amount involved was small, measured in grams rather than kilograms. About 25kg would be needed for a warhead made from highly enriched uranium.The officials said the gang had been caught in a sting operation, and they had told would-be buyers it was a sample of a bigger batch.The news appears to echo the 2006 case of Oleg Khinsagov, a petty smuggler from North Ossetia \u2013 a Russian territory across the international border from South Ossetia. Khinsagov had also claimed the sample was part of a larger quantity. If the latest seized uranium proves to be from the same sample, it would add weight to fears that a significant quantity of fissile material may have been stolen after the fall of the Soviet Union. Not all the Soviet arsenal of nuclear material has been accounted for. It is unclear whether that is because some was taken or because of weaknesses in Soviet-era accounting.", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Georgia clash over uranium"},{"date": "2010-04-08T09:17:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The US president, Barack Obama, and Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian leader, today signed an arms treaty that will slash their respective nuclear arsenals by a third.The two men shook hands to applause after signing what Obama called a historic agreement in the opulent setting of Prague castle in the Czech Republic. Obama said the new agreement made the US and the world more secure and helped stopped the drift in US-Russia relations.\"Together we've stopped that drift,\" Obama said, adding that the agreement was a \"milestone for US-Russia relations\".He acknowledged, however, that the new agreement was \"just one step on a longer journey\" and said it has set the stage for further cuts. There was also a stern message for Iran as Obama said the world would not tolerate actions from countries that flouted the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and threatened collective security. Medvedev echoed Obama's concerns, saying that the world could not turn a blind eye to Iran, which he said had not responded to \"many constructive proposals\". He hinted that Russia would be open to further sanctions against Tehran.The new treaty will cut American and Russian strategic nuclear warheads to 1,550 over seven years, about a third less than the 2,200 currently allowed.Obama returned to Prague one year after he outlined his vision before an enthusiastic crowd for a world without nuclear weapons. The speech helped him win the Nobel peace prize, but Obama has acknowledged that eliminating nuclear weapons is unlikely to be achieved during his lifetime.The agreement to reduce nuclear warheads by a third succeeds the 1991 strategic arms reduction treaty (Start), which expired in December. It will have to be ratified by the US Senate \u2013 where conservative Republicans can be expected to give it a rough ride \u2013 and the Russian parliament.In addition to the warhead limit, the US and Russia must cut their total land, sea and air-based launchers to 800 each, and no more than 700 actually deployed within seven years. While that will leave plenty of nuclear weapons to destroy the world several times over, it marks a big drop from the total of 19,000 strategic warheads both sides deployed during the cold war.Obama wants to move for even deeper cuts but faces Russian reluctance because of American plans to build a missile defence system in Europe to counter a possible Iranian threat. Russia argues that antiballistic missile systems could neutralise its smaller arsenal.Even as Obama pushes for deep cuts in nuclear weapons, the Washington Post reported that the Pentagon is developing a weapon to plug the gap left by nuclear warheads: missiles armed with conventional warheads that could strike anywhere in the world in less than an hour. US military officials say the intercontinental ballistic missiles, known as prompt global strike weapons, are a necessary new form of deterrence against terrorist networks.Obama will have to balance his desire for deep cuts against the more immediate goal of keeping Russia on side to ratchet up the pressure on Iran and its suspected nuclear weapons programme. The US is seeking another round of sanctions against Tehran and Obama is also courting support from China, which recently signalled its willingness to adopt a tougher line towards Iran.Obama's trip to Prague is part of an intensive round of nuclear diplomacy. On Tuesday, the US released the results of a comprehensive nuclear strategy review in which the US committed itself for the first time not to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear states provided that they are party to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and in compliance with their nuclear non-proliferation obligations \u2013 a caveat that excludes North Korea and Iran.Next week, Obama welcomes to Washington the leaders of 46 countries, including the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, for a summit meeting on nuclear security.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Czech Republic", "US news", "Russia", "US national security", "World news", "Weapons technology", "Science", "Europe"], "title": "Barack Obama signs nuclear treaty with Russia"},{"date": "2010-06-16T12:17:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain is to stop giving aid to China and Russia as part of a government plan to target financial help to the world's poorest nations, the development secretary, Andrew Mitchell, said today.Announcing a review into the 90 countries that currently share the \u00a32.9bn a year dispensed by the UK in bilateral aid, Mitchell said the money should be spent where it did most good.\"For some countries, aid is a vital safety net that saves lives every day. UK money should be spent helping the poorest people in the poorest countries, with every penny making a real difference by giving families the chance of a better future,\" the development secretary said.\"It is not justifiable to continue to give aid money to China and Russia. Other country programmes which are less effective will be closed or reduced and the savings will be redirected towards those countries where they can make the most difference.\"China, the world's third biggest and fastest growing economy, received just over \u00a340m a year from the UK in 2008-09. Russia, a member of the elite G8 group of developed nations, received \u00a3373,000.The government has ringfenced the Department for International Development from spending cuts and pledged to meet the legally binding target set by Labour of providing an aid budget of 0.7% of national output.Mitchell said he wanted redirected money to be spent on poverty reduction measures including programmes to improve maternal health, women's right to family planning and protection against deadly diseases such as malaria.The scrutiny of bilateral aid follows Mitchell's announcement last week that he will review how Britain's multilateral aid is spent by bodies such as the World Bank and the United Nations.Oxfam today said that Britain was the biggest single donor to the World Bank's International Development Association (IDA) \u2013 a fund for the very poorest nations \u2013 but had no guarantees that the money was being spent on poverty reduction. The bank is currently negotiating a new round of IDA funding, seeking at least $25bn (\u00a317bn) from rich countries.\"If the UK government is going to hand over money to the World Bank, it needs to make sure that the bank spends it on the poorest, and on helping countries reach the millennium development goals,\" said Elizabeth Stuart, Oxfam's head of relations with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. \"That's just basic accountability.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "China", "Russia", "World Bank", "Economics", "Business", "Politics", "Society", "Aid and development", "Katine", "Aid", "Europe", "Asia Pacific", "Andrew Mitchell"], "title": "UK terminates development aid to China and Russia"},{"date": "2010-06-10T15:20:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Detectives in Russia's far east were today using tanks and helicopters to comb the region's coniferous forests and swamps for a gang of avenging outlaws who have carried out a series of attacks on police.Dubbed the \"Russian Rambos\", the group shot dead a policeman last month in the village of Rakitnoye in the Primorye Krai region. They wounded three officers in two further attacks near the town of Spassk, officials say \u2013 shooting up a patrol and ambushing a car.The gang's leader is said to be 32-year-old Roman Muromtsev, a former army officer and Chechen war veteran, who sent a warning letter to police last month. In it, he said local people had grown utterly fed up with police corruption and lawlessness. Unless the force mended its criminal ways, he would be compelled to act as a \"people's avenger\", he threatened.The outlaws made good their threat last month, setting fire to a police station in the region's Yakovlev district. They have reportedly seized uniforms, flak jackets and radio communications equipment. The gang are armed with automatic weapons, explosives and even grenades, officials claim.In a defiant message posted on the web, Muromtsev called on fellow Russians to join his \"war\" against police \"evil\", adding that he was prepared to sacrifice his life for the cause. The authorities have now launched a special operation \u2013 dispatching armoured vehicles into the forests and flagging down and searching cars on federal highways.The gang's exploits have gripped the Russian media. More shocking, however, is the public's reaction \u2013 with 70% of Russians, according to one radio poll, describing the gang members as \"partisans\" or \"Robin Hoods\". Only 30% considered the police killers to be bandits, the poll revealed. One blogger even compared them to Che Guevara.\"We are in shock over remarks left on the internet,\" policeman Mikhail Konstantinov said. \"People are saying it's OK to kill police officers and are even congratulating the criminals who do it. It's horrible. There's no escaping the fact that a young policeman has been killed for simply doing his job,\" he told Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper.Russia's police force has suffered a catastrophic loss of public confidence following a series of scandals. In April last year off-duty police chief Denis Yevsyukov opened fire in a Moscow supermarket, killing two people and wounding seven. The case opened the floodgates for a series of media reports accusing the police of beatings, torture, rapes, drug trafficking, racketeering, bribe-taking and other crimes.Today the father of one alleged gang member said his son joined the guerrillas after police beat him up. Vladimir Savchenko said officers accused his 18-year-old son Roman of stealing from a local dacha \u2013 punching him until he confessed. \"After this he ran away from home. He disappeared for a week. The police proudly said there was no point in complaining since they had an agreement with the local prosecutor,\" he claimed.According to Savchenko, two other gang members \u2013 Andrei Sukhorada, 22, and Alexander Kovtun, or Kavtun, 20 \u2013 also suffered from illegal police activity. He said Kovtun spent a month in hospital a year and a half ago after officers broke his ribs. \"I don't know how this gang was formed. But I know that they are all young boys who have suffered at the hands of police employees,\" Savchenko said.Today one leading sociologist said the Russian Rambos were a reaction to increasingly arbitrary rule by the authorities. \"We are seeing the more and more blatant manifestation of administrative impunity. In reaction to this crude demonstration of power \u2026 protests are acquiring more marginal and aggressive forms,\" Lev Gudkov told Radio Svoboda, adding: \"They are symptoms of a very bad situation.\"Russia's far east has seen growing social unrest and numerous demonstrations against federal and regional authorities. Most of the gang members, said to number between five and 20, come from desperately poor local villages.Far-right groups, meanwhile, have praised the actions of the guerrillas \u2013 and claimed them as supporters.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hunts 'Rambo' gang after campaign of violence against police"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-15T16:25:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and Norway today ended a bitter 40-year dispute over their maritime borders and signed a treaty that will allow for new oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region.The agreement lays to rest a long-running Soviet-era row over the Barents Sea. Both countries claimed a 175,000 sq km (67,567 sq mile) zone, about half the size of Germany, situated north of Russia's Kola Peninsula and the Norwegian coast. The treaty divides the disputed area equally between the two countries.The dispute flared up in the 1970s and was initially about fish. But the area is now thought to be not only rich in fishing but also in oil and gas, with proven petroleum reserves on both the Russia and Norwegian sides.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, and Norway's prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, signed the treaty today in the Russian city of Murmansk, north of the Arctic circle and not far from the Norwegian border.With the five Arctic powers - Russia, the US, Canada, Denmark and Norway - scrambling to file territorial claims over the Arctic, Medvedev hailed the agreement as a \"constructive\" model of how rival Arctic nations should settle their differences. He also warned Nato not to \"exacerbate\" its presence in the region.\"This is a practical illustration of the principle that all disputes in the Arctic must be tackled by the Arctic nations themselves by way of talks and on the basis of international law,\" a Kremlin source told the Russian news agency Interfax.Under existing rules states have exclusive economic rights up to 200 miles from their shores. But they can claim even more if they can demonstrate that their continental shelf extends beyond this limit. In 2007 Russia planted a flag at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean in support of its claim that it was entitled to a much bigger chunk of the Arctic.The gesture triggered a series of furious counter-claims by Canada and Denmark that their territory is continuous with the Lomonosov ridge, an underwater ridge in the Arctic Ocean. The competition is driven by estimates that the Arctic could hold 13% of the world's remaining oil deposits and 30% of its gas reserves, not to mention precious metals.Today one Arctic expert said climate change would make the extraction of oil and gas from the Arctic much easier. \"In the future it will be more acceptable. It [extraction] isn't so difficult,\" Professor Anatoly Kolodkin, the president of the International Maritime Law Association told the Guardian.Kolodkin denied accusations that Russia was trying to \"grab\" Arctic territory and said the Kremlin was a signatory to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which decides all Arctic claims. \"As Mr [Vladimir] Putin emphasised we are not going to take something unilaterally. We will only act in accordance with international procedures,\" he said.Two years ago Russia's security council identified the Arctic as an important \"strategic resource\" to be exploited \u2013 but also said its ecological system should be preserved. Putin, Russia's prime minister, is hosting an international conference on the future of the Arctic in Moscow next week.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Russia", "Norway", "World news", "Oil", "Gas", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Oceans", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Norway resolve Arctic border dispute"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-15T16:25:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and Norway today ended a bitter 40-year dispute over their maritime borders and signed a treaty that will allow for new oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region.The agreement lays to rest a long-running Soviet-era row over the Barents Sea. Both countries claimed a 175,000 sq km (67,567 sq mile) zone, about half the size of Germany, situated north of Russia's Kola Peninsula and the Norwegian coast. The treaty divides the disputed area equally between the two countries.The dispute flared up in the 1970s and was initially about fish. But the area is now thought to be not only rich in fishing but also in oil and gas, with proven petroleum reserves on both the Russia and Norwegian sides.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, and Norway's prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, signed the treaty today in the Russian city of Murmansk, north of the Arctic circle and not far from the Norwegian border.With the five Arctic powers - Russia, the US, Canada, Denmark and Norway - scrambling to file territorial claims over the Arctic, Medvedev hailed the agreement as a \"constructive\" model of how rival Arctic nations should settle their differences. He also warned Nato not to \"exacerbate\" its presence in the region.\"This is a practical illustration of the principle that all disputes in the Arctic must be tackled by the Arctic nations themselves by way of talks and on the basis of international law,\" a Kremlin source told the Russian news agency Interfax.Under existing rules states have exclusive economic rights up to 200 miles from their shores. But they can claim even more if they can demonstrate that their continental shelf extends beyond this limit. In 2007 Russia planted a flag at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean in support of its claim that it was entitled to a much bigger chunk of the Arctic.The gesture triggered a series of furious counter-claims by Canada and Denmark that their territory is continuous with the Lomonosov ridge, an underwater ridge in the Arctic Ocean. The competition is driven by estimates that the Arctic could hold 13% of the world's remaining oil deposits and 30% of its gas reserves, not to mention precious metals.Today one Arctic expert said climate change would make the extraction of oil and gas from the Arctic much easier. \"In the future it will be more acceptable. It [extraction] isn't so difficult,\" Professor Anatoly Kolodkin, the president of the International Maritime Law Association told the Guardian.Kolodkin denied accusations that Russia was trying to \"grab\" Arctic territory and said the Kremlin was a signatory to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which decides all Arctic claims. \"As Mr [Vladimir] Putin emphasised we are not going to take something unilaterally. We will only act in accordance with international procedures,\" he said.Two years ago Russia's security council identified the Arctic as an important \"strategic resource\" to be exploited \u2013 but also said its ecological system should be preserved. Putin, Russia's prime minister, is hosting an international conference on the future of the Arctic in Moscow next week.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Russia", "Norway", "World news", "Oil", "Gas", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Oceans", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Norway resolve Arctic border dispute"},{"date": "2010-08-12T15:55:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Associated Press is moving an interesting dispatch across the wires this morning, vis a vis the climactic calamities ongoing in Russia and Pakistan. Charles Hanley writes:The weather-related cataclysms of July and August fit patterns predicted by climate scientists, the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization says \u2014 although those scientists always shy from tying individual disasters directly to global warming......The U.N.'s network of climate scientists \u2014 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) \u2014 has long predicted that rising global temperatures would produce more frequent and intense heat waves, and more intense rainfalls. In its latest assessment, in 2007, the Nobel Prize-winning panel went beyond that. It said these trends \"have already been observed,\" in an increase in heat waves since 1950, for example.Still, climatologists generally refrain from blaming warming for this drought or that flood, since so many other factors also affect the day's weather.Stott and NASA's Gavin Schmidt at the Goddard Institute of Space Studies in New York, said it's better to think in terms of odds: Warming might double the chances for a heat wave, for example. \"That is exactly what's happening,\" Schmidt said, \"a lot more warm extremes and less cold extremes.\"Something to think about. The 2007 IPCC report predicted massive droughts in Russia. It also forecast greater flooding \"this century\" (which is ambiguous but inarguably includes right now) in southern Pakistan.Meanwhile, I see from UN Dispatch that the climate talks in Bonn, ongoing for the last few days, ended without any major agreement. Of course, from a US perspective, it doesn't really matter that much anyway, because in America we need 67 senators to agree to ratify an international treaty and that won't happen in this country for the foreseeable future under any circumstances.I sometimes imagine what it would take, weather-wise, for people to see that we have to do something about this. It puts one in the odd and perhaps I confess morally unsupportable position of cheering for a certain amount of calamity, the better to put the crisis in stark relief, but hopefully not too much calamity, lest many die. But doing nothing and relying on oil-industry-funded \"scientists\" to argue that it's all a hoax so that said industries can be free of the coffle of state interference is more morally unsupportable, as time and tide shall demonstrate.", "tags": ["US politics", "Climate change"], "title": "Russia, Pakistan and food for thought | Michael Tomasky"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-15T16:25:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and Norway today ended a bitter 40-year dispute over their maritime borders and signed a treaty that will allow for new oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region.The agreement lays to rest a long-running Soviet-era row over the Barents Sea. Both countries claimed a 175,000 sq km (67,567 sq mile) zone, about half the size of Germany, situated north of Russia's Kola Peninsula and the Norwegian coast. The treaty divides the disputed area equally between the two countries.The dispute flared up in the 1970s and was initially about fish. But the area is now thought to be not only rich in fishing but also in oil and gas, with proven petroleum reserves on both the Russia and Norwegian sides.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, and Norway's prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, signed the treaty today in the Russian city of Murmansk, north of the Arctic circle and not far from the Norwegian border.With the five Arctic powers - Russia, the US, Canada, Denmark and Norway - scrambling to file territorial claims over the Arctic, Medvedev hailed the agreement as a \"constructive\" model of how rival Arctic nations should settle their differences. He also warned Nato not to \"exacerbate\" its presence in the region.\"This is a practical illustration of the principle that all disputes in the Arctic must be tackled by the Arctic nations themselves by way of talks and on the basis of international law,\" a Kremlin source told the Russian news agency Interfax.Under existing rules states have exclusive economic rights up to 200 miles from their shores. But they can claim even more if they can demonstrate that their continental shelf extends beyond this limit. In 2007 Russia planted a flag at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean in support of its claim that it was entitled to a much bigger chunk of the Arctic.The gesture triggered a series of furious counter-claims by Canada and Denmark that their territory is continuous with the Lomonosov ridge, an underwater ridge in the Arctic Ocean. The competition is driven by estimates that the Arctic could hold 13% of the world's remaining oil deposits and 30% of its gas reserves, not to mention precious metals.Today one Arctic expert said climate change would make the extraction of oil and gas from the Arctic much easier. \"In the future it will be more acceptable. It [extraction] isn't so difficult,\" Professor Anatoly Kolodkin, the president of the International Maritime Law Association told the Guardian.Kolodkin denied accusations that Russia was trying to \"grab\" Arctic territory and said the Kremlin was a signatory to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which decides all Arctic claims. \"As Mr [Vladimir] Putin emphasised we are not going to take something unilaterally. We will only act in accordance with international procedures,\" he said.Two years ago Russia's security council identified the Arctic as an important \"strategic resource\" to be exploited \u2013 but also said its ecological system should be preserved. Putin, Russia's prime minister, is hosting an international conference on the future of the Arctic in Moscow next week.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Russia", "Norway", "World news", "Oil", "Gas", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Oceans", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Norway resolve Arctic border dispute"},{"date": "2010-08-12T15:55:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Associated Press is moving an interesting dispatch across the wires this morning, vis a vis the climactic calamities ongoing in Russia and Pakistan. Charles Hanley writes:The weather-related cataclysms of July and August fit patterns predicted by climate scientists, the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization says \u2014 although those scientists always shy from tying individual disasters directly to global warming......The U.N.'s network of climate scientists \u2014 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) \u2014 has long predicted that rising global temperatures would produce more frequent and intense heat waves, and more intense rainfalls. In its latest assessment, in 2007, the Nobel Prize-winning panel went beyond that. It said these trends \"have already been observed,\" in an increase in heat waves since 1950, for example.Still, climatologists generally refrain from blaming warming for this drought or that flood, since so many other factors also affect the day's weather.Stott and NASA's Gavin Schmidt at the Goddard Institute of Space Studies in New York, said it's better to think in terms of odds: Warming might double the chances for a heat wave, for example. \"That is exactly what's happening,\" Schmidt said, \"a lot more warm extremes and less cold extremes.\"Something to think about. The 2007 IPCC report predicted massive droughts in Russia. It also forecast greater flooding \"this century\" (which is ambiguous but inarguably includes right now) in southern Pakistan.Meanwhile, I see from UN Dispatch that the climate talks in Bonn, ongoing for the last few days, ended without any major agreement. Of course, from a US perspective, it doesn't really matter that much anyway, because in America we need 67 senators to agree to ratify an international treaty and that won't happen in this country for the foreseeable future under any circumstances.I sometimes imagine what it would take, weather-wise, for people to see that we have to do something about this. It puts one in the odd and perhaps I confess morally unsupportable position of cheering for a certain amount of calamity, the better to put the crisis in stark relief, but hopefully not too much calamity, lest many die. But doing nothing and relying on oil-industry-funded \"scientists\" to argue that it's all a hoax so that said industries can be free of the coffle of state interference is more morally unsupportable, as time and tide shall demonstrate.", "tags": ["US politics", "Climate change"], "title": "Russia, Pakistan and food for thought | Michael Tomasky"},{"date": "2010-08-04T19:00:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Projecting a workaholic image is par for the course for many world leaders. Margaret Thatcher famously got by on a daily 20-minute catnap during the Falklands war. Benito Mussolini cheated by leaving a lamp burning in his office when he was already tucked up in bed. But has Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin gone a step too far by promising to stay up all night after work \u2013 watching a bunch of builders on\u00a0CCTV?Putin made the commitment on Tuesday as he toured Mokhovoye near Moscow \u2013 or what remains of it after a fire engulfed the village. It was meant as a sop to public anger over the handling of the hundreds of wildfires that have torn through Russia in the last week.Residents of Mokhovoye blamed poor firefighting for the destruction. What's more, they doubted assurances that their cottages would be replaced before the winter. That's when Putin stepped in.Video cameras would, he said, be installed at every building site to beam live images of the restoration effort to the government, its website and \"me at home\". \"One of the most efficient measures of control is 24-hour monitoring,\" he added.Orwellian as it sounds, Putin clearly hopes the terror of his name will head off any attempts to cash in on the crisis; it's customary for bureaucrats to skim millions of roubles off any construction budget for a new Mercedes or a dacha refit. Whether Putin is staying up red-eyed in front of a screen tonight is really neither here nor there. Few of those builders will risk slacking off now.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia, your prime minister is watching you"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-15T16:25:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and Norway today ended a bitter 40-year dispute over their maritime borders and signed a treaty that will allow for new oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region.The agreement lays to rest a long-running Soviet-era row over the Barents Sea. Both countries claimed a 175,000 sq km (67,567 sq mile) zone, about half the size of Germany, situated north of Russia's Kola Peninsula and the Norwegian coast. The treaty divides the disputed area equally between the two countries.The dispute flared up in the 1970s and was initially about fish. But the area is now thought to be not only rich in fishing but also in oil and gas, with proven petroleum reserves on both the Russia and Norwegian sides.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, and Norway's prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, signed the treaty today in the Russian city of Murmansk, north of the Arctic circle and not far from the Norwegian border.With the five Arctic powers - Russia, the US, Canada, Denmark and Norway - scrambling to file territorial claims over the Arctic, Medvedev hailed the agreement as a \"constructive\" model of how rival Arctic nations should settle their differences. He also warned Nato not to \"exacerbate\" its presence in the region.\"This is a practical illustration of the principle that all disputes in the Arctic must be tackled by the Arctic nations themselves by way of talks and on the basis of international law,\" a Kremlin source told the Russian news agency Interfax.Under existing rules states have exclusive economic rights up to 200 miles from their shores. But they can claim even more if they can demonstrate that their continental shelf extends beyond this limit. In 2007 Russia planted a flag at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean in support of its claim that it was entitled to a much bigger chunk of the Arctic.The gesture triggered a series of furious counter-claims by Canada and Denmark that their territory is continuous with the Lomonosov ridge, an underwater ridge in the Arctic Ocean. The competition is driven by estimates that the Arctic could hold 13% of the world's remaining oil deposits and 30% of its gas reserves, not to mention precious metals.Today one Arctic expert said climate change would make the extraction of oil and gas from the Arctic much easier. \"In the future it will be more acceptable. It [extraction] isn't so difficult,\" Professor Anatoly Kolodkin, the president of the International Maritime Law Association told the Guardian.Kolodkin denied accusations that Russia was trying to \"grab\" Arctic territory and said the Kremlin was a signatory to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which decides all Arctic claims. \"As Mr [Vladimir] Putin emphasised we are not going to take something unilaterally. We will only act in accordance with international procedures,\" he said.Two years ago Russia's security council identified the Arctic as an important \"strategic resource\" to be exploited \u2013 but also said its ecological system should be preserved. Putin, Russia's prime minister, is hosting an international conference on the future of the Arctic in Moscow next week.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Russia", "Norway", "World news", "Oil", "Gas", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Oceans", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Norway resolve Arctic border dispute"},{"date": "2010-08-12T15:55:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Associated Press is moving an interesting dispatch across the wires this morning, vis a vis the climactic calamities ongoing in Russia and Pakistan. Charles Hanley writes:The weather-related cataclysms of July and August fit patterns predicted by climate scientists, the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization says \u2014 although those scientists always shy from tying individual disasters directly to global warming......The U.N.'s network of climate scientists \u2014 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) \u2014 has long predicted that rising global temperatures would produce more frequent and intense heat waves, and more intense rainfalls. In its latest assessment, in 2007, the Nobel Prize-winning panel went beyond that. It said these trends \"have already been observed,\" in an increase in heat waves since 1950, for example.Still, climatologists generally refrain from blaming warming for this drought or that flood, since so many other factors also affect the day's weather.Stott and NASA's Gavin Schmidt at the Goddard Institute of Space Studies in New York, said it's better to think in terms of odds: Warming might double the chances for a heat wave, for example. \"That is exactly what's happening,\" Schmidt said, \"a lot more warm extremes and less cold extremes.\"Something to think about. The 2007 IPCC report predicted massive droughts in Russia. It also forecast greater flooding \"this century\" (which is ambiguous but inarguably includes right now) in southern Pakistan.Meanwhile, I see from UN Dispatch that the climate talks in Bonn, ongoing for the last few days, ended without any major agreement. Of course, from a US perspective, it doesn't really matter that much anyway, because in America we need 67 senators to agree to ratify an international treaty and that won't happen in this country for the foreseeable future under any circumstances.I sometimes imagine what it would take, weather-wise, for people to see that we have to do something about this. It puts one in the odd and perhaps I confess morally unsupportable position of cheering for a certain amount of calamity, the better to put the crisis in stark relief, but hopefully not too much calamity, lest many die. But doing nothing and relying on oil-industry-funded \"scientists\" to argue that it's all a hoax so that said industries can be free of the coffle of state interference is more morally unsupportable, as time and tide shall demonstrate.", "tags": ["US politics", "Climate change"], "title": "Russia, Pakistan and food for thought | Michael Tomasky"},{"date": "2010-08-04T19:00:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Projecting a workaholic image is par for the course for many world leaders. Margaret Thatcher famously got by on a daily 20-minute catnap during the Falklands war. Benito Mussolini cheated by leaving a lamp burning in his office when he was already tucked up in bed. But has Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin gone a step too far by promising to stay up all night after work \u2013 watching a bunch of builders on\u00a0CCTV?Putin made the commitment on Tuesday as he toured Mokhovoye near Moscow \u2013 or what remains of it after a fire engulfed the village. It was meant as a sop to public anger over the handling of the hundreds of wildfires that have torn through Russia in the last week.Residents of Mokhovoye blamed poor firefighting for the destruction. What's more, they doubted assurances that their cottages would be replaced before the winter. That's when Putin stepped in.Video cameras would, he said, be installed at every building site to beam live images of the restoration effort to the government, its website and \"me at home\". \"One of the most efficient measures of control is 24-hour monitoring,\" he added.Orwellian as it sounds, Putin clearly hopes the terror of his name will head off any attempts to cash in on the crisis; it's customary for bureaucrats to skim millions of roubles off any construction budget for a new Mercedes or a dacha refit. Whether Putin is staying up red-eyed in front of a screen tonight is really neither here nor there. Few of those builders will risk slacking off now.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia, your prime minister is watching you"},{"date": "2010-07-13T13:53:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is interrogating 10 of its sleeper agents deported from the US at a secret facility, it was reported today.Intelligence officers are using lie detector tests to be sure a double agent did not betray the team to the FBI, reports in Moscow say.The agents flew to Moscow on Friday in a tense \"spy swap\" with four people accused of spying for the west. However, nothing has been heard of them since they were whisked away from the capital's Domodedovo airport in a convoy.The group included the 28-year-old businesswoman Anna Chapman, a former Barclays bank employee who spent several years working in London.Quoting a source in the security services, the Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper reported that the agents were first taken to the headquarters of the foreign intelligence service (SVR) in Yasenevo, on the outskirts of Moscow, but were later moved to an unspecified location.\"Specialists are working with the agents,\" an unnamed source was quoted as saying. \"They are trying to find out which intelligence officers [who handled the agents] might have made a blunder.\"They are talking to them and carrying out various tests, including with lie detectors.\"The source added that an \"enormous amount of work\" was being done to establish whether there was a traitor in the SVR who had betrayed the agents. High-ranking SVR officers are thought to have been aware of the agent network since it became active in 2001.Reports in the US said a 12th person had been detained in connection with the Russian spy ring.The Wall Street Journal said FBI counter-intelligence agents had been investigating a 23-year-old Russian man for nearly a year, adding that he would be deported.Meanwhile, realtives of Igor Sutyagin, a Russian scientist convicted of working for the CIA who was sent to Britain as part of the swap, said he had called home a second time.Dmitry Sutyagin said his brother was still staying in a hotel in a small town near London, but did not know exactly where he was.The scientist told his mother he had been examined by a psychologist and a doctor. \"The doctor said that for someone who has been in prison for 11 years his health is not bad at all,\" his brother said.Sutyagin told his family he expected to receive a British visa within the next two days, but had not decided whether he would stay in the country. \"Until he's made a sober assessment of the situation, both in Russia and in England, he's not going to make a decision,\" his brother said.After earlier suggesting that his movements were restricted, Sutyagin told his mother he was able to walk in woods near his hotel, and he felt as though he was staying at a health resort. He said he was being fed \"well and generously\" although the food was \"unfamiliar\".The 10 spies deported from the US are staying in hotels at a closed SVR facility where there is no mobile telephone coverage.Relatives can visit them but they will not be allowed to leave the territory for two weeks or more while the \"work on mistakes\" is conducted, the source added.If it transpires that the \"illegals\" \u2013 as FBI officers called the agents \u2013 committed no errors, they will be released.The capture of the agents, who used a mix of high and low technology including invisible ink and odd code phrases in ungrammatical English to communicate with their handlers, has caused discomfit in some Moscow circles.Gennady Gudkov, a former KGB colonel and the deputy head of the parliamentary security committee, said: \"Now we know that not only our court system and law enforcement agencies are bad, the last bulwark of the image of our legendary special services has also crumbled.\"Opinion is divided over the future of the 10 agents. Some commentators have predicted Chapman \u2013 who has been described as \"agent 90-60-90\"\u2013 could become a chatshow host or model.But Andrei Soldatov, an espionage expert and the editor of agentura.ru, said it was likely the agents would stay under wraps.\"They will probably go to be instructors at the SVR academy, which is a kind of cemetery of agents expelled from other countries,\" he added.", "tags": ["Russian spy ring", "Russia", "US national security", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia interrogates agents deported from US"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-15T16:25:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and Norway today ended a bitter 40-year dispute over their maritime borders and signed a treaty that will allow for new oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region.The agreement lays to rest a long-running Soviet-era row over the Barents Sea. Both countries claimed a 175,000 sq km (67,567 sq mile) zone, about half the size of Germany, situated north of Russia's Kola Peninsula and the Norwegian coast. The treaty divides the disputed area equally between the two countries.The dispute flared up in the 1970s and was initially about fish. But the area is now thought to be not only rich in fishing but also in oil and gas, with proven petroleum reserves on both the Russia and Norwegian sides.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, and Norway's prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, signed the treaty today in the Russian city of Murmansk, north of the Arctic circle and not far from the Norwegian border.With the five Arctic powers - Russia, the US, Canada, Denmark and Norway - scrambling to file territorial claims over the Arctic, Medvedev hailed the agreement as a \"constructive\" model of how rival Arctic nations should settle their differences. He also warned Nato not to \"exacerbate\" its presence in the region.\"This is a practical illustration of the principle that all disputes in the Arctic must be tackled by the Arctic nations themselves by way of talks and on the basis of international law,\" a Kremlin source told the Russian news agency Interfax.Under existing rules states have exclusive economic rights up to 200 miles from their shores. But they can claim even more if they can demonstrate that their continental shelf extends beyond this limit. In 2007 Russia planted a flag at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean in support of its claim that it was entitled to a much bigger chunk of the Arctic.The gesture triggered a series of furious counter-claims by Canada and Denmark that their territory is continuous with the Lomonosov ridge, an underwater ridge in the Arctic Ocean. The competition is driven by estimates that the Arctic could hold 13% of the world's remaining oil deposits and 30% of its gas reserves, not to mention precious metals.Today one Arctic expert said climate change would make the extraction of oil and gas from the Arctic much easier. \"In the future it will be more acceptable. It [extraction] isn't so difficult,\" Professor Anatoly Kolodkin, the president of the International Maritime Law Association told the Guardian.Kolodkin denied accusations that Russia was trying to \"grab\" Arctic territory and said the Kremlin was a signatory to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which decides all Arctic claims. \"As Mr [Vladimir] Putin emphasised we are not going to take something unilaterally. We will only act in accordance with international procedures,\" he said.Two years ago Russia's security council identified the Arctic as an important \"strategic resource\" to be exploited \u2013 but also said its ecological system should be preserved. Putin, Russia's prime minister, is hosting an international conference on the future of the Arctic in Moscow next week.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Russia", "Norway", "World news", "Oil", "Gas", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Oceans", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Norway resolve Arctic border dispute"},{"date": "2010-08-12T15:55:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Associated Press is moving an interesting dispatch across the wires this morning, vis a vis the climactic calamities ongoing in Russia and Pakistan. Charles Hanley writes:The weather-related cataclysms of July and August fit patterns predicted by climate scientists, the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization says \u2014 although those scientists always shy from tying individual disasters directly to global warming......The U.N.'s network of climate scientists \u2014 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) \u2014 has long predicted that rising global temperatures would produce more frequent and intense heat waves, and more intense rainfalls. In its latest assessment, in 2007, the Nobel Prize-winning panel went beyond that. It said these trends \"have already been observed,\" in an increase in heat waves since 1950, for example.Still, climatologists generally refrain from blaming warming for this drought or that flood, since so many other factors also affect the day's weather.Stott and NASA's Gavin Schmidt at the Goddard Institute of Space Studies in New York, said it's better to think in terms of odds: Warming might double the chances for a heat wave, for example. \"That is exactly what's happening,\" Schmidt said, \"a lot more warm extremes and less cold extremes.\"Something to think about. The 2007 IPCC report predicted massive droughts in Russia. It also forecast greater flooding \"this century\" (which is ambiguous but inarguably includes right now) in southern Pakistan.Meanwhile, I see from UN Dispatch that the climate talks in Bonn, ongoing for the last few days, ended without any major agreement. Of course, from a US perspective, it doesn't really matter that much anyway, because in America we need 67 senators to agree to ratify an international treaty and that won't happen in this country for the foreseeable future under any circumstances.I sometimes imagine what it would take, weather-wise, for people to see that we have to do something about this. It puts one in the odd and perhaps I confess morally unsupportable position of cheering for a certain amount of calamity, the better to put the crisis in stark relief, but hopefully not too much calamity, lest many die. But doing nothing and relying on oil-industry-funded \"scientists\" to argue that it's all a hoax so that said industries can be free of the coffle of state interference is more morally unsupportable, as time and tide shall demonstrate.", "tags": ["US politics", "Climate change"], "title": "Russia, Pakistan and food for thought | Michael Tomasky"},{"date": "2010-08-04T19:00:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Projecting a workaholic image is par for the course for many world leaders. Margaret Thatcher famously got by on a daily 20-minute catnap during the Falklands war. Benito Mussolini cheated by leaving a lamp burning in his office when he was already tucked up in bed. But has Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin gone a step too far by promising to stay up all night after work \u2013 watching a bunch of builders on\u00a0CCTV?Putin made the commitment on Tuesday as he toured Mokhovoye near Moscow \u2013 or what remains of it after a fire engulfed the village. It was meant as a sop to public anger over the handling of the hundreds of wildfires that have torn through Russia in the last week.Residents of Mokhovoye blamed poor firefighting for the destruction. What's more, they doubted assurances that their cottages would be replaced before the winter. That's when Putin stepped in.Video cameras would, he said, be installed at every building site to beam live images of the restoration effort to the government, its website and \"me at home\". \"One of the most efficient measures of control is 24-hour monitoring,\" he added.Orwellian as it sounds, Putin clearly hopes the terror of his name will head off any attempts to cash in on the crisis; it's customary for bureaucrats to skim millions of roubles off any construction budget for a new Mercedes or a dacha refit. Whether Putin is staying up red-eyed in front of a screen tonight is really neither here nor there. Few of those builders will risk slacking off now.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia, your prime minister is watching you"},{"date": "2010-07-13T13:53:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is interrogating 10 of its sleeper agents deported from the US at a secret facility, it was reported today.Intelligence officers are using lie detector tests to be sure a double agent did not betray the team to the FBI, reports in Moscow say.The agents flew to Moscow on Friday in a tense \"spy swap\" with four people accused of spying for the west. However, nothing has been heard of them since they were whisked away from the capital's Domodedovo airport in a convoy.The group included the 28-year-old businesswoman Anna Chapman, a former Barclays bank employee who spent several years working in London.Quoting a source in the security services, the Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper reported that the agents were first taken to the headquarters of the foreign intelligence service (SVR) in Yasenevo, on the outskirts of Moscow, but were later moved to an unspecified location.\"Specialists are working with the agents,\" an unnamed source was quoted as saying. \"They are trying to find out which intelligence officers [who handled the agents] might have made a blunder.\"They are talking to them and carrying out various tests, including with lie detectors.\"The source added that an \"enormous amount of work\" was being done to establish whether there was a traitor in the SVR who had betrayed the agents. High-ranking SVR officers are thought to have been aware of the agent network since it became active in 2001.Reports in the US said a 12th person had been detained in connection with the Russian spy ring.The Wall Street Journal said FBI counter-intelligence agents had been investigating a 23-year-old Russian man for nearly a year, adding that he would be deported.Meanwhile, realtives of Igor Sutyagin, a Russian scientist convicted of working for the CIA who was sent to Britain as part of the swap, said he had called home a second time.Dmitry Sutyagin said his brother was still staying in a hotel in a small town near London, but did not know exactly where he was.The scientist told his mother he had been examined by a psychologist and a doctor. \"The doctor said that for someone who has been in prison for 11 years his health is not bad at all,\" his brother said.Sutyagin told his family he expected to receive a British visa within the next two days, but had not decided whether he would stay in the country. \"Until he's made a sober assessment of the situation, both in Russia and in England, he's not going to make a decision,\" his brother said.After earlier suggesting that his movements were restricted, Sutyagin told his mother he was able to walk in woods near his hotel, and he felt as though he was staying at a health resort. He said he was being fed \"well and generously\" although the food was \"unfamiliar\".The 10 spies deported from the US are staying in hotels at a closed SVR facility where there is no mobile telephone coverage.Relatives can visit them but they will not be allowed to leave the territory for two weeks or more while the \"work on mistakes\" is conducted, the source added.If it transpires that the \"illegals\" \u2013 as FBI officers called the agents \u2013 committed no errors, they will be released.The capture of the agents, who used a mix of high and low technology including invisible ink and odd code phrases in ungrammatical English to communicate with their handlers, has caused discomfit in some Moscow circles.Gennady Gudkov, a former KGB colonel and the deputy head of the parliamentary security committee, said: \"Now we know that not only our court system and law enforcement agencies are bad, the last bulwark of the image of our legendary special services has also crumbled.\"Opinion is divided over the future of the 10 agents. Some commentators have predicted Chapman \u2013 who has been described as \"agent 90-60-90\"\u2013 could become a chatshow host or model.But Andrei Soldatov, an espionage expert and the editor of agentura.ru, said it was likely the agents would stay under wraps.\"They will probably go to be instructors at the SVR academy, which is a kind of cemetery of agents expelled from other countries,\" he added.", "tags": ["Russian spy ring", "Russia", "US national security", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia interrogates agents deported from US"},{"date": "2010-07-07T14:01:53Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Moscow and Washington are moving rapidly towards a spy swap that would exchange 10 accused Russian agents arrested in the US last week for alleged western spies jailed by Russia.The Russian authorities were preparing to send a scientist, convicted six years ago of passing atomic secrets to US intelligence, to Britain as part of the swap, his family said. Igor Sutyagin was transferred from a remote Arctic penal colony to Moscow in preparation for the exchange. His father told the Guardian he was one of those to be used as \"collateral\" in the deal.In the US, the New York Times reported that officials are in discussions with the lawyers of the alleged long-term, deep-cover Russian agents detained last week over plea bargains that would see them swiftly convicted of minor offences and sent back to Moscow. Five of the alleged spies were moved to New York at short notice today after court hearings were cancelled.An exchange would avoid protracted and potentially embarrassing trials for both countries. The alleged spies' lack of success and the FBI's weak case would come under close scrutiny.Sutyagin was arrested in 1999 and convicted five years later of passing secret material on atomic submarines and missile warning systems to a British-based consultancy firm that prosecutors in Moscow said was a CIA front.There has been no official confirmation of the planned exchange but the scientist's father, Vyacheslav Sutyagin, told the Guardian that Russian intelligence officers said his son could be freed tomorrow:\"My wife Svetlana and Igor's brother, Dmitry, met with an officer from the Foreign Intelligence Service [SVR] at Lefortovo who explained the plan,\" he said. \"He said that Igor and nine other people who they have rounded up in Russia will be swapped for the spies who were arrested in the United States. It was not clear why, but it seems that Igor will go to Austria and from there to Britain.\"He added: \"In order for them to let him go, my son had to sign a document accepting that he was a spy, which was morally oppressive for him but he had no choice if he wanted to gain his freedom.\"My son knows English well and we hope he may be able to find work in Britain.\"Sutyagin's lawyer, Anna Stavitskaya, told a press conference that her client had received an \"offer he couldn't refuse\".Supporters of Sutyagin, an arms control expert who worked for Moscow's prestigious USA and Canada Institute, have campaigned for years for his release saying the material he sold to the British consultancy firm came from open sources and he had no reason to suspect it was a CIA front.Vyacheslav Sutyagin said he understood another of the people to be swapped would be Sergei Skripal, a Russian military intelligence officer jailed for treason for passing secrets to MI6 in the 1990s.All but one of the 10 accused in the US are believed to be Russian citizens although the true identities of most of them remains unknown. The tenth is an American married to a Russian.An 11th accused spy, named as Christopher Metsos, disappeared after being arrested on a US international warrant in Cyprus and then given bail.The alleged spies are being held in prison on charges of working as unregistered agents of a foreign government. They are not accused of espionage.Some of the defendants have admitted their role. One, calling himself Juan Lozaro, is a former professor who has passed himself off as Uruguayan. According to the FBI, he has admitted his family is from Russia and that he works for the SVR. But he has refused to reveal his true identity.Two others, who posed as Michael Zottoli and Patricia Mills, a couple from New York and Canada, revealed their true identities in a Virginia court last week in order to be able to send their children back to Russia. The pair, whose real names are Mikhail Kutzik and Natalia Pereverzeva, were due in court again but the hearing was cancelled and it was announced they were to be moved to New York immediately along with a third defendant arrested in Virginia, Mikhail Semenko.In Boston a couple going under the false names of Donald Heathfield and Tracey Foley were also sent to New York after a court hearing was called off. Heathfield is known to have stolen the identity of a Canadian who died as a small child.There was no immediate comment from Washington and the British embassy in Moscow said it was unaware of the proposed spy swap. The SVR refused to comment.The mother of another detained Russian, Anna Chapman, criticised the media coverage of her daughter and said she may take legal action against newspapers for invasion of privacy.Irina Kushchenko said Chapman had always been \"an independent and honest person\".1962 The USSR released Gary Powers, pilot of a U-2 spy plane shot down over the Soviet Union in 1960, in return for Russian spy Rudolf Abel.1969 Britain struck a deal with Moscow to release Peter and Helen Kroger from prison early in exchange for the freedom of lecturer Gerald Brooke, who was jailed for espionage in the Soviet Union.1981 G\u00fcnter Guillaume, a close aide to former West German chancellor Willy Brandt, was exchanged for captured western agents.1985 US agents held in eastern Europe handed over in return for Polish agent Marian Zacharski and three others.1986 Soviet Jewish dissident Natan Sharansky swapped for KGB husband-and-wife spies Karl and Hana Koecher and two other agents.", "tags": ["Russian spy ring", "Russia", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and US 'planning spy swap'"},{"date": "2010-09-09T23:05:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "In an off-the-record briefing to a visiting group of foreign academics and journalists this week, a senior official of the Russian government spoke in tones verging on contempt about the victims of the forest fires that ravaged central Russia this summer. He argued that there had never been a proper fire service in the forests around Moscow and that everyone who lived there knew it. For every hero in the fire service who sacrificed his life for others, there were a hundred others who never pitched up. But rather than accept the collective responsibility for failing as a government to organise a functioning fire service, he drew the opposite conclusion. He said it was up to each owner to have their own fire bucket. Why should the state help those who could not, or would not, help themselves? The narod are mugs.As chilling as these comments are, they nevertheless represent an attitude prevalent in the elite around Vladimir Putin who run Russia. Some are now people of considerable wealth, as proximity to power is profitable. While paying lip service in public to the corruption of bureaucrats and the deindustrialisation of an economy dangerously dependent on the price of oil and gas, they themselves do little in practice to stop either. What interest would they have in changing a system on which they thrive? The modernisation of which they speak is about means, not ends. It is about implanting progress from above, dropping a Russian Silicon Valley on to the forests of Skolkovo (when there are cities with strong scientific centres languishing through lack of investment) or building an international ski resort above the subtropical city of Sochi. God forbid that economic liberalisation should lead to political change, the creation of real political parties, a functioning civil society, and institutions independent of the governing elite. There is no exact equivalent in English of Putin's \"soft autocracy\", and that may be telling in itself. Even benign despotism implies a will to improve the lives of ordinary people.Russia itself is languishing. Its economy contracted by nearly 8% last year, its worst annual economic performance since 1994, and \u2013 despite being so dependent on the stuff \u2013 it is producing less oil now than the Soviet Union did in the 1970s. Soviet oil accounted for 35% of global production in 1985. Oil from Russia accounts today for just 17% \u2013 a marked decline even after the partial loss of oil from the Caspian basin is factored in. Russia's economy has shrunk twice in the last decade, and deindustrialisation is making itself felt in Russia's mono-cities \u2013 those reliant on a single industry. It is against this background that the billions of dollars thrown at baubles like Skolkovo and Sochi should be judged.Speaking in Sochi this week, Mr Putin made little secret of his dislike of elected local officials. He even described how one of them did a bunk through the back door rather than face popular wrath after one disaster. The implication is that Russia is not ready for democracy and the system of Kremlin-appointed bureaucrats is here to stay for some time to come. In a conference in Yaroslavl today, President Dmitry Medvedev will attempt to claw back some of the limelight lost to his senior partner in recent months. The president's speeches often include strident criticisms of the political system of which he is an intrinsic part. Two and a half years into his term of office, Russian liberals wait in vain for the president's cavalry to arrive. By all accounts, it has yet to be formed. In judging the balance of power between Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the former wins hands down even though, on paper, he has fewer powers.Michael McFaul, President Barack Obama's top adviser on Russia, argued yesterday that, historically, autocracies have been less instrumental than democracies in economic modernisation. He is right, but the greater threat Russia faces is stagnation, under the grip of an elite increasingly unwilling to share the spoils of power.", "tags": ["Russia", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: Power to the powerful | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:11:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The two men who run Russia have been sketching varying visions of the future, in what passes for the party conference season. In Sochi a week ago, Vladimir Putin spent nearly three hours parrying questions from the Valdai Club, a group of foreign academics and journalists (including the Guardian) and told them that things would stay as they are. The prime minister looked tanned and fit. His nails were manicured and he turned out for the occasion in a glitzy suit and open linen shirt. If Franklin D Roosevelt had four terms of office, why could not he? Putin poured scorn on the idea of returning to elected regional governors and regaled the company with tales of how one of them bolted through the back door rather than face angry villagers after a disaster.On Friday it was Dmitry Medvedev's turn to take the stage. The Russian president was flanked in Yaroslavl by South Korea's Lee Myung-bak on one side and Silvio Berlusconi on the other, but the annual gathering had some way to go before it could be called a Russian Davos. Medvedev wanted to knock on the head the notion that Russia was an autocracy \u2013 the description Putin seemed only too comfortable with in Sochi. \"In Russia there is democracy. Yes it is young, immature, inexperienced but its democracy all the same. We are at the very start of the road.\"Maybe, but Medvedev is not at the start of his. A year after his \"Go Russia\" article in which he tore into Russia's primitive raw-materials-based economy, its chronic corruption and the arbitrariness, lack of freedom and injustice to which its citizens were treated \u2013 all his phrases \u2013 the question can rightly be asked about when the president intends to set out on his long liberalising journey. By all accounts, not quite yet.Both performances in Sochi and Yaroslavl are in marked contrast to how government actually functions in Russia. A glimpse into this will be provided at the end of the month by the publication of a book into the Federal Security Service (FSB) by two investigative journalists Andrei Soldatov and Irina Borogan. Their thesis is that under the aegis of Putin, a veteran KGB officer, the FSB has developed into something more powerful and more frightening that its predecessor. They call it the New Nobility and, significantly, the book will be published in English and outside Russia, before any attempt is made to sell it in Russia.Soldatov and Borogan stick only to what they know and what they can prove. They discard claims they can not stand up, such as the allegations by Alexander Litvinenko, the former FSB lieutenant colonel poisoned in London, that Putin was behind two apartment bombings in Moscow, which killed over 200 people and were used to launch his career and a second war in Chechnya.This approach makes their account all the more authoritative. The organisation they describe has grown into every facet of Russian life \u2013 the media, business, the internet \u2013 but it differs from the KGB in two respects: there is much less political control over the security service than there was under communism, and the generals who run it are now wealthy men, with both land and business interests.The clearest example of the FSB's new wealth is to be glimpsed behind three metre high walls along the gold coast of Rublyovka. This is the route all occupiers of the Kremlin have taken to their dachas in the forests outside Moscow. It was called the road of the Tsar after Ivan the Terrible used it to go falcon hunting. In Soviet times, the politburo, the central committee, artists and scientists all had wooden retreats along it.Their wooden dachas in pale, flaking green paint are dwarfed by today's columned brick and stone mansions, which trade hands for millions of dollars. The road of the tsars is now lined with Maserati showrooms and adverts for flats bureaucrats can buy for their mistresses.In 2006 Viktor Alksinis, a former colonel in the Soviet air force who was elected to the state duma from a district which included the Rublyovka, discovered the state had doled out 99 acres of land in the area to private citizens. They were divided into 90 allotments, 38 of them taken from the funds of the FSB material support management directorate. This land was given outright to former and current high ranking FSB officials. In researching these transactions, Soldatov and Borogan noted that the FSB generals were not noted by name or rank and were merely called: \"servicemen who served more than 15 years\".This is just one example out of many presented in the book about who really wields power in Russia. The authors conclude: \"Reaping lucrative property in the elite forests of the Rublyovka may comfort generals nearing the end of their careers but does not prepare a new generation to become fair arbiters and respected enforcers in a democratic society.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Vladimir Putin", "Politics", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Europe"], "title": "Who really wields power in Russia | David Hearst"},{"date": "2010-09-15T16:25:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and Norway today ended a bitter 40-year dispute over their maritime borders and signed a treaty that will allow for new oil and gas exploration in the Arctic region.The agreement lays to rest a long-running Soviet-era row over the Barents Sea. Both countries claimed a 175,000 sq km (67,567 sq mile) zone, about half the size of Germany, situated north of Russia's Kola Peninsula and the Norwegian coast. The treaty divides the disputed area equally between the two countries.The dispute flared up in the 1970s and was initially about fish. But the area is now thought to be not only rich in fishing but also in oil and gas, with proven petroleum reserves on both the Russia and Norwegian sides.Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, and Norway's prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, signed the treaty today in the Russian city of Murmansk, north of the Arctic circle and not far from the Norwegian border.With the five Arctic powers - Russia, the US, Canada, Denmark and Norway - scrambling to file territorial claims over the Arctic, Medvedev hailed the agreement as a \"constructive\" model of how rival Arctic nations should settle their differences. He also warned Nato not to \"exacerbate\" its presence in the region.\"This is a practical illustration of the principle that all disputes in the Arctic must be tackled by the Arctic nations themselves by way of talks and on the basis of international law,\" a Kremlin source told the Russian news agency Interfax.Under existing rules states have exclusive economic rights up to 200 miles from their shores. But they can claim even more if they can demonstrate that their continental shelf extends beyond this limit. In 2007 Russia planted a flag at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean in support of its claim that it was entitled to a much bigger chunk of the Arctic.The gesture triggered a series of furious counter-claims by Canada and Denmark that their territory is continuous with the Lomonosov ridge, an underwater ridge in the Arctic Ocean. The competition is driven by estimates that the Arctic could hold 13% of the world's remaining oil deposits and 30% of its gas reserves, not to mention precious metals.Today one Arctic expert said climate change would make the extraction of oil and gas from the Arctic much easier. \"In the future it will be more acceptable. It [extraction] isn't so difficult,\" Professor Anatoly Kolodkin, the president of the International Maritime Law Association told the Guardian.Kolodkin denied accusations that Russia was trying to \"grab\" Arctic territory and said the Kremlin was a signatory to the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, which decides all Arctic claims. \"As Mr [Vladimir] Putin emphasised we are not going to take something unilaterally. We will only act in accordance with international procedures,\" he said.Two years ago Russia's security council identified the Arctic as an important \"strategic resource\" to be exploited \u2013 but also said its ecological system should be preserved. Putin, Russia's prime minister, is hosting an international conference on the future of the Arctic in Moscow next week.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Russia", "Norway", "World news", "Oil", "Gas", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Oceans", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and Norway resolve Arctic border dispute"},{"date": "2010-08-12T15:55:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Associated Press is moving an interesting dispatch across the wires this morning, vis a vis the climactic calamities ongoing in Russia and Pakistan. Charles Hanley writes:The weather-related cataclysms of July and August fit patterns predicted by climate scientists, the Geneva-based World Meteorological Organization says \u2014 although those scientists always shy from tying individual disasters directly to global warming......The U.N.'s network of climate scientists \u2014 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) \u2014 has long predicted that rising global temperatures would produce more frequent and intense heat waves, and more intense rainfalls. In its latest assessment, in 2007, the Nobel Prize-winning panel went beyond that. It said these trends \"have already been observed,\" in an increase in heat waves since 1950, for example.Still, climatologists generally refrain from blaming warming for this drought or that flood, since so many other factors also affect the day's weather.Stott and NASA's Gavin Schmidt at the Goddard Institute of Space Studies in New York, said it's better to think in terms of odds: Warming might double the chances for a heat wave, for example. \"That is exactly what's happening,\" Schmidt said, \"a lot more warm extremes and less cold extremes.\"Something to think about. The 2007 IPCC report predicted massive droughts in Russia. It also forecast greater flooding \"this century\" (which is ambiguous but inarguably includes right now) in southern Pakistan.Meanwhile, I see from UN Dispatch that the climate talks in Bonn, ongoing for the last few days, ended without any major agreement. Of course, from a US perspective, it doesn't really matter that much anyway, because in America we need 67 senators to agree to ratify an international treaty and that won't happen in this country for the foreseeable future under any circumstances.I sometimes imagine what it would take, weather-wise, for people to see that we have to do something about this. It puts one in the odd and perhaps I confess morally unsupportable position of cheering for a certain amount of calamity, the better to put the crisis in stark relief, but hopefully not too much calamity, lest many die. But doing nothing and relying on oil-industry-funded \"scientists\" to argue that it's all a hoax so that said industries can be free of the coffle of state interference is more morally unsupportable, as time and tide shall demonstrate.", "tags": ["US politics", "Climate change"], "title": "Russia, Pakistan and food for thought | Michael Tomasky"},{"date": "2010-08-04T19:00:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Projecting a workaholic image is par for the course for many world leaders. Margaret Thatcher famously got by on a daily 20-minute catnap during the Falklands war. Benito Mussolini cheated by leaving a lamp burning in his office when he was already tucked up in bed. But has Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin gone a step too far by promising to stay up all night after work \u2013 watching a bunch of builders on\u00a0CCTV?Putin made the commitment on Tuesday as he toured Mokhovoye near Moscow \u2013 or what remains of it after a fire engulfed the village. It was meant as a sop to public anger over the handling of the hundreds of wildfires that have torn through Russia in the last week.Residents of Mokhovoye blamed poor firefighting for the destruction. What's more, they doubted assurances that their cottages would be replaced before the winter. That's when Putin stepped in.Video cameras would, he said, be installed at every building site to beam live images of the restoration effort to the government, its website and \"me at home\". \"One of the most efficient measures of control is 24-hour monitoring,\" he added.Orwellian as it sounds, Putin clearly hopes the terror of his name will head off any attempts to cash in on the crisis; it's customary for bureaucrats to skim millions of roubles off any construction budget for a new Mercedes or a dacha refit. Whether Putin is staying up red-eyed in front of a screen tonight is really neither here nor there. Few of those builders will risk slacking off now.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia, your prime minister is watching you"},{"date": "2010-07-13T13:53:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is interrogating 10 of its sleeper agents deported from the US at a secret facility, it was reported today.Intelligence officers are using lie detector tests to be sure a double agent did not betray the team to the FBI, reports in Moscow say.The agents flew to Moscow on Friday in a tense \"spy swap\" with four people accused of spying for the west. However, nothing has been heard of them since they were whisked away from the capital's Domodedovo airport in a convoy.The group included the 28-year-old businesswoman Anna Chapman, a former Barclays bank employee who spent several years working in London.Quoting a source in the security services, the Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper reported that the agents were first taken to the headquarters of the foreign intelligence service (SVR) in Yasenevo, on the outskirts of Moscow, but were later moved to an unspecified location.\"Specialists are working with the agents,\" an unnamed source was quoted as saying. \"They are trying to find out which intelligence officers [who handled the agents] might have made a blunder.\"They are talking to them and carrying out various tests, including with lie detectors.\"The source added that an \"enormous amount of work\" was being done to establish whether there was a traitor in the SVR who had betrayed the agents. High-ranking SVR officers are thought to have been aware of the agent network since it became active in 2001.Reports in the US said a 12th person had been detained in connection with the Russian spy ring.The Wall Street Journal said FBI counter-intelligence agents had been investigating a 23-year-old Russian man for nearly a year, adding that he would be deported.Meanwhile, realtives of Igor Sutyagin, a Russian scientist convicted of working for the CIA who was sent to Britain as part of the swap, said he had called home a second time.Dmitry Sutyagin said his brother was still staying in a hotel in a small town near London, but did not know exactly where he was.The scientist told his mother he had been examined by a psychologist and a doctor. \"The doctor said that for someone who has been in prison for 11 years his health is not bad at all,\" his brother said.Sutyagin told his family he expected to receive a British visa within the next two days, but had not decided whether he would stay in the country. \"Until he's made a sober assessment of the situation, both in Russia and in England, he's not going to make a decision,\" his brother said.After earlier suggesting that his movements were restricted, Sutyagin told his mother he was able to walk in woods near his hotel, and he felt as though he was staying at a health resort. He said he was being fed \"well and generously\" although the food was \"unfamiliar\".The 10 spies deported from the US are staying in hotels at a closed SVR facility where there is no mobile telephone coverage.Relatives can visit them but they will not be allowed to leave the territory for two weeks or more while the \"work on mistakes\" is conducted, the source added.If it transpires that the \"illegals\" \u2013 as FBI officers called the agents \u2013 committed no errors, they will be released.The capture of the agents, who used a mix of high and low technology including invisible ink and odd code phrases in ungrammatical English to communicate with their handlers, has caused discomfit in some Moscow circles.Gennady Gudkov, a former KGB colonel and the deputy head of the parliamentary security committee, said: \"Now we know that not only our court system and law enforcement agencies are bad, the last bulwark of the image of our legendary special services has also crumbled.\"Opinion is divided over the future of the 10 agents. Some commentators have predicted Chapman \u2013 who has been described as \"agent 90-60-90\"\u2013 could become a chatshow host or model.But Andrei Soldatov, an espionage expert and the editor of agentura.ru, said it was likely the agents would stay under wraps.\"They will probably go to be instructors at the SVR academy, which is a kind of cemetery of agents expelled from other countries,\" he added.", "tags": ["Russian spy ring", "Russia", "US national security", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia interrogates agents deported from US"},{"date": "2010-07-07T14:01:53Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Moscow and Washington are moving rapidly towards a spy swap that would exchange 10 accused Russian agents arrested in the US last week for alleged western spies jailed by Russia.The Russian authorities were preparing to send a scientist, convicted six years ago of passing atomic secrets to US intelligence, to Britain as part of the swap, his family said. Igor Sutyagin was transferred from a remote Arctic penal colony to Moscow in preparation for the exchange. His father told the Guardian he was one of those to be used as \"collateral\" in the deal.In the US, the New York Times reported that officials are in discussions with the lawyers of the alleged long-term, deep-cover Russian agents detained last week over plea bargains that would see them swiftly convicted of minor offences and sent back to Moscow. Five of the alleged spies were moved to New York at short notice today after court hearings were cancelled.An exchange would avoid protracted and potentially embarrassing trials for both countries. The alleged spies' lack of success and the FBI's weak case would come under close scrutiny.Sutyagin was arrested in 1999 and convicted five years later of passing secret material on atomic submarines and missile warning systems to a British-based consultancy firm that prosecutors in Moscow said was a CIA front.There has been no official confirmation of the planned exchange but the scientist's father, Vyacheslav Sutyagin, told the Guardian that Russian intelligence officers said his son could be freed tomorrow:\"My wife Svetlana and Igor's brother, Dmitry, met with an officer from the Foreign Intelligence Service [SVR] at Lefortovo who explained the plan,\" he said. \"He said that Igor and nine other people who they have rounded up in Russia will be swapped for the spies who were arrested in the United States. It was not clear why, but it seems that Igor will go to Austria and from there to Britain.\"He added: \"In order for them to let him go, my son had to sign a document accepting that he was a spy, which was morally oppressive for him but he had no choice if he wanted to gain his freedom.\"My son knows English well and we hope he may be able to find work in Britain.\"Sutyagin's lawyer, Anna Stavitskaya, told a press conference that her client had received an \"offer he couldn't refuse\".Supporters of Sutyagin, an arms control expert who worked for Moscow's prestigious USA and Canada Institute, have campaigned for years for his release saying the material he sold to the British consultancy firm came from open sources and he had no reason to suspect it was a CIA front.Vyacheslav Sutyagin said he understood another of the people to be swapped would be Sergei Skripal, a Russian military intelligence officer jailed for treason for passing secrets to MI6 in the 1990s.All but one of the 10 accused in the US are believed to be Russian citizens although the true identities of most of them remains unknown. The tenth is an American married to a Russian.An 11th accused spy, named as Christopher Metsos, disappeared after being arrested on a US international warrant in Cyprus and then given bail.The alleged spies are being held in prison on charges of working as unregistered agents of a foreign government. They are not accused of espionage.Some of the defendants have admitted their role. One, calling himself Juan Lozaro, is a former professor who has passed himself off as Uruguayan. According to the FBI, he has admitted his family is from Russia and that he works for the SVR. But he has refused to reveal his true identity.Two others, who posed as Michael Zottoli and Patricia Mills, a couple from New York and Canada, revealed their true identities in a Virginia court last week in order to be able to send their children back to Russia. The pair, whose real names are Mikhail Kutzik and Natalia Pereverzeva, were due in court again but the hearing was cancelled and it was announced they were to be moved to New York immediately along with a third defendant arrested in Virginia, Mikhail Semenko.In Boston a couple going under the false names of Donald Heathfield and Tracey Foley were also sent to New York after a court hearing was called off. Heathfield is known to have stolen the identity of a Canadian who died as a small child.There was no immediate comment from Washington and the British embassy in Moscow said it was unaware of the proposed spy swap. The SVR refused to comment.The mother of another detained Russian, Anna Chapman, criticised the media coverage of her daughter and said she may take legal action against newspapers for invasion of privacy.Irina Kushchenko said Chapman had always been \"an independent and honest person\".1962 The USSR released Gary Powers, pilot of a U-2 spy plane shot down over the Soviet Union in 1960, in return for Russian spy Rudolf Abel.1969 Britain struck a deal with Moscow to release Peter and Helen Kroger from prison early in exchange for the freedom of lecturer Gerald Brooke, who was jailed for espionage in the Soviet Union.1981 G\u00fcnter Guillaume, a close aide to former West German chancellor Willy Brandt, was exchanged for captured western agents.1985 US agents held in eastern Europe handed over in return for Polish agent Marian Zacharski and three others.1986 Soviet Jewish dissident Natan Sharansky swapped for KGB husband-and-wife spies Karl and Hana Koecher and two other agents.", "tags": ["Russian spy ring", "Russia", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia and US 'planning spy swap'"},{"date": "2010-08-16T16:03:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, has ordered an immediate inquiry into the potential destruction of the world's oldest seed bank following a court case and a Twitter campaign by Guardian readers and others.The fate of the station appeared to be sealed last week when a court ruled in favour of the Pavlovsk research station and its surrounding farmland being turned into private housing. It holds the world's largest fruit collections and was protected by 12 Russian scientists during the second world war who chose to starve to death rather than eat the unique collection of seeds and plants which they were guarding during the 900-day siege of Leningrad.More than 90% of the plants are found in no other research collection or seed bank. Its seeds and berries are thought to posess traits that could be crucial to maintaining productive fruit harvests in many parts of the world as climate change and a rising tide of disease, pests and drought weaken the varieties farmers now grow. At stake, say campaigners for the station, are more than 5,000 varieties of seeds and berries from dozens of countries, including more than 100 varieties each of gooseberries and raspberries.As it is predominantly a field collection, Pavlovsk cannot be moved. Experts estimate that even if another site were available nearby, it would take many years to relocate the plants.The court ruling was instantly appealed, giving the station one month before development plans for a housing estate that would destroy the station can move forward. This judgment means the order can only be revoked through a direct command of the president or prime minister, Vladimir Putin.The Civic Chamber, a Russian state institution with a remit to monitor parliament and the government, then sent a telegram to Medvedev to request a formal appeal to protect the collection. And numerous supporters of the research station have made their feelings felt on Twitter (using the #pavlovsk hashtag). On Friday, following a week of lobbying Medvedev tweeted back: \"Received the Civic Chamber's appeal over the Pavlov Experimental Station. Gave the instruction for this issue to be scrutinised.\"The campaign may have already achieved more than the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation which last year appealed unsuccessfully to the Russian government to include Pavlovsk in the global network of gene banks.However, the ongoing heatwave is thought to have also put pressure on the government. Russian agricultural minister, Elena Borisovna Skrynnik, had fought for the station to be saved on the grounds that its heritage was crucial for food security as climate change grew more serious.Much of the Russian wheat harvest has been destroyed in the last month by the heatwave, which has been linked to climate change.Yesterday, the Crop Diversity Trust, which has been leading western attempts to save the station, urged people to continue to petition the Russian authorities. A statement on the trust's website said: \"Over the next four weeks, we will continue our fight to save Pavlovsk, and we need your help. We need to persuade the political authorities of the importance of the irreplaceable crop diversity growing at Pavlovsk station, and request that the judgment be revoked.\"", "tags": ["Biodiversity", "Russia", "Twitter", "Technology", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Plants", "Science", "Conservation", "Endangered species", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia launches inquiry into Pavlovsk seed bank after Twitter campaign"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-02T13:38:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Friday, 30 October 2009, 11:53C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 MOSCOW 002688 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 10/26/2019 TAGS PGOV, PHUM, KDEM, RS SUBJECT: IS STALIN'S GHOST A THREAT TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM? REF: A) MOSCOW 2586 B) MOSCOW 1349Classified By: Pol Min Counselor Susan Elliott for reason 1.4 (d)1. (C) Summary: Efforts to sanitize Stalin's role in Soviet history may be potentially damaging to academic freedom and linked to GOR efforts to increase authoritarian rule. Although some recent incidents have caused concern among human rights monitors, thus far GOR efforts to enlist academics to help oppose \"falsification of history\" have not been strongly enforced. GOR rhetoric on the subject appears largely aimed at scoring political points in arguments with foreign countries. End Summary.Stalin's ghost haunts the Metro-------------------------------2. (SBU) The specter of Joseph Stalin continues to haunt post-Soviet Russia, as the GOR and average Russians alike struggle to reconcile their pride in past Soviet glories with the harsh fact that the Soviet system, especially under Stalin, destroyed the lives of millions of its citizens. This uneasy and ambivalent relationship with the past is further complicated by a GOR policy of occasionally exploiting nationalistic emotions about Soviet history -- especially the Soviet victory over the Nazis -- to buttress support for its own, modern brand of authoritarianism (ref A). The latest dispute flared up after Moscow City Hall announced on October 27 that it would add Lenin's name to artwork in the Kurskaya Metro station which, since August, has carried a restored verse from the 1944 version of the Soviet anthem praising Stalin. Moscow's chief architect, Aleksandr Kuzmin, told local media that he wanted to \"return Kurskaya to its original appearance,\" which would include a monument to Stalin. An article in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, a paper not always known for liberal opposition, noted wryly that if the goal was to return things to their original appearance, it might be necessary to blanket the entire city with Stalin's image, as authorities had done during the height of Stalin's totalitarian reign of terror. Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov told Interfax October 28 that the city had no intention of placing a Stalin statue in the Metro, and the Moscow Patriarchate criticized the idea of \"Stalinist symbols\" in the Metro, calling it \"divisive.\"Academic freedom under threat?------------------------------3. (C) GOR efforts to sanitize Soviet history have continued throughout the year, and have the potential to reach into numerous walks of life and hence to encroach upon academic freedom. In May, the Kremlin announced that it had formed a \"Commission to Oppose Historical Falsification,\" and its state Duma supporters introduced legislation to defend Russia's honor in any discussion of World War II and the subsequent creation of the Soviet Union (ref B). Less than a month later, in June, XXXXXXXXXXXX leaked to us an email allegedly from V.A. Tishkov, the Chief of the History Section of RAN, politely \"requesting\" all faculty to present him with information in connection with the GOR's May announcement. The information requested included a list of sources of possible \"falsification\" in their field of study, and information about activity among their students promoting the spread of \"falsification\" or of \"concepts damaging to Russia's interests.\" More recently, on October 14, the Moscow Times reported that the German government had written a letter to President Medvedev complaining about an investigation into an Arkhangelsk historian, Mikhail Suprun, for \"violating privacy rights\" by researching deportations of Soviet Germans under Stalin. The police official who gave Suprun access to the archives is also accused of \"abuse of office,\" while Suprun could receive up to four years in prison, and has had what he called \"a lifetime's work\" on computers and research data confiscated by the Federal Security Service (FSB).4. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that she personally knew professors at academic institutions in Moscow who had received such memos during the summer, including memos asking them to \"identify falsifiers.\" She added that the Foreign Intelligence Service also has a presence at RAN. Discussing this potentially disturbing trend, XXXXXXXXXXXX also alluded to the \"unpleasant rewrites\" found in officially sanctioned textbooks which whitewash Stalin's role in the country's history. While acknowledging the existence of \"a broad variety\" of history books (approximately 24 schoolbooks on history are available in bookstores), XXXXXXXXXXXX noted that the official version outnumbers the others by 250,000 books to approximately 10-15,000. Furthermore, in Russia as in the U.S., parents do not buy their children's history books, but rather the schools order them, which XXXXXXXXXXXX said makes theMOSCOW 00002688 002 OF 003choice \"pre-determined.\" On October 24, the liberal Daily Journal reported the release of the latest in a long line of history textbooks rehabilitating Stalin; this one, ironically produced by the \"Enlightenment\" publishing company, denies the existence of totalitarianism in the USSR. The article noted that every time someone brings up the topic of history, it engendered a furious on-line debate.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that a \"virtual war\" has flared up between pro-Kremlin and anti-Kremlin bloggers every time someone published papers on the Internet that they received from state archives 15 years ago detailing Soviet human rights abuses. The papers date back 15 years, XXXXXXXXXXXX explained, because now, \"as in Soviet times,\" people need to complete special applications to receive permission to read such documents. A brief window opened after the fall of the Soviet Union, and just as quickly closed again.The past is not dead; it is not even past-----------------------------------------7. (C) For XXXXXXXXXXXX, such debates tell as much about the present as they do about the past. He believes that the GOR is \"trying to create a newly obedient society,\" which \"as in Orwell,\" only knows history from a standpoint beneficial to the authorities. According to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"when the power structure talks about falsification, they are simply attempting to hide part of history.\" He added that knowledge of the real history carries significant power. He was struck by the \"shock\" of people who learned historical facts, because \"sometimes just one fact can overturn a person's whole world view.\" For example, XXXXXXXXXXXX daughter, who studied in the USSR and teaches history in high school, upon learning that XXXXXXXXXXXX grandfather had been killed in the 1937 purges, talked of little else for several years afterward. According to XXXXXXXXXXX, \"the Kremlin fears people learning about past atrocities and crimes,\" and hence \"tries to manipulate people's consciousness.\" XXXXXXXXXXX added that he understands the GOR's policy, because \"if people knew the extent of Soviet crimes,\" the Kremlin would not be able to control the populace. XXXXXXXXXXXX expressed a similar view, saying that the GOR prefers to present itself as \"infallible, making only correct decisions,\" and that discussions about Stalin's misdeeds might lead to unwanted questions for today's government.8. (C) XXXXXXXXXXX said he suspected that at least some of the pro-Kremlin bloggers who participate in these historical debates were professionals in the pay of the GOR (and perhaps special services). This notion may not be so far-fetched. On October 21, Interfax reported that a supposedly private citizen named Mikhail Baranov had launched an Internet portal called \"Runivers\" to fight \"falsification of history\" by creating a historical and cultural electronic encyclopedia and library. The article describes Baranov's organization as \"non-commercial,\" and does not indicate from where -- during these economically tight times -- it receives its funding. However, a State Duma deputy who is a member of the Runivers board, Vladimir Medinskiy, lamented to Interfax that \"Russia does not have an institution that would be dealing in historical propaganda, which is why we are losing in the war aimed to falsify Russian history.\"A \"wink\" is the easiest response to GOR directives--------------------------------------------- -----9. (C) The fact that Russia currently lacks such a \"historical propaganda\" institution has thus far prevented any widespread attacks on academic freedom in the name of \"anti-falsification.\" XXXXXXXXXXXX, told us October 27 that he had heard no reports from any of his MGU colleagues of any pressure on them to present teaching materials or name names in order to ferret out \"falsification.\" He attributed this at least in part to the fact that, in contrast to neighboring Belarus, Russia has no Ideological Department which examines all teaching materials in schools and universities. XXXXXXXXXXXX also cautioned against leaping to Orwellian conclusions, reminding us not to \"underestimate the cynicism\" involved in administrative requests like the one at RAN. \"Everyone knows how to take such requests,\" she said; the request from the government is \"ugly,\" but unlike in Soviet times, when professors all depended upon the government for their currently there is no way to enforce such decrees. As a result, according to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"people wink\"; the administrators, while passing along the government's request, make it clear to their subordinates that they themselves do not support it. XXXXXXXXXXXX pointed out that many historians may be outraged at the government's heavy-handedness and its \"real falsification of history,\" but they don't see themselves as a unified force.MOSCOW 00002688 003 OF 003The simplest response is to use the power of inertia, and to stonewall passively.Goal of GOR rhetoric: score political points at home--------------------------------------------- -------10. (C) For the GOR's part, it held a session of its Commission during the summer, and its director claimed that participants were \"not here to censor, but simply to oppose\" perceived attempts by other countries to gain at Russia's expense on the geopolitical scene. Although the stated focus is on international disputes, the GOR's primary audience for its hardline stance is domestic. Rhetoric defending Russia's honor on the international stage scores easy political points for the GOR at home. (Note: This occasionally results in some fancy footwork, as when Putin visited Poland on the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and wrote a conciliatory article for his Polish audience, which -- according to Lipman, by GOR design -- received scant coverage in Russian media. End Note.) As XXXXXXXXXXXX said, \"there is a lot of vagueness about the past, but World War II is the one thing everyone in Russia accepts, both liberal and conservative; the narrative is that Germany attacked, and we won.\" That Stalin continues to have a following, 56 years after his death, is undeniable. After Aleksandr Prokhanov, editor-in-chief of the ultranationalist paper Zavtra, praised Stalin on the \"Honest Monday\" political talk show on Gazprom-owned NTV, television audience members were invited to phone in their opinions. Of those who participated, 61 percent called Stalin a hero, 32 percent an enemy, and 7 percent \"a great, effective manager.\"Comment-------11. (C) Recent reports of the death of academic freedom in Russia are greatly exaggerated. GOR leaders have shown that they are willing to adopt nationalistic postures when it buttresses their popular support, but attempts to dictate academic terms thus far appear half-hearted. The GOR is no doubt telling the truth when it claims to place greater focus on external quarrels about its past than on domestic debates. It is undeniable that nationalists continue to link Russia's past greatness with its past political system, which showed disdain for the value of individual human life and for freedom of expression, and that this approach places these fundamental freedoms under threat. However, there remain enough Russians both in and out of the government who question the nationalists' logic and strive to keep the memory of Stalin's victims alive. In the meantime, the GOR occasionally remembers to name a street after Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn just to make sure that nobody confuses them with the Soviets. When discussing this issue, Russians frequently refer to the poet Anna Akhmatova, who, when Khrushchev opened the doors to Stalin's prisons, wrote that the half of Russia who had imprisoned the other half would now come face to face with its victims. Since according to a recent Levada poll, 27 percent of current Russians have relatives who perished under Stalin's rule, that \"other half\" is not going away any time soon. Beyrle", "tags": ["Joseph Stalin", "Russia", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Stalin's spectre haunts Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-02T13:38:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Friday, 30 October 2009, 11:53C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 MOSCOW 002688 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 10/26/2019 TAGS PGOV, PHUM, KDEM, RS SUBJECT: IS STALIN'S GHOST A THREAT TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM? REF: A) MOSCOW 2586 B) MOSCOW 1349Classified By: Pol Min Counselor Susan Elliott for reason 1.4 (d)1. (C) Summary: Efforts to sanitize Stalin's role in Soviet history may be potentially damaging to academic freedom and linked to GOR efforts to increase authoritarian rule. Although some recent incidents have caused concern among human rights monitors, thus far GOR efforts to enlist academics to help oppose \"falsification of history\" have not been strongly enforced. GOR rhetoric on the subject appears largely aimed at scoring political points in arguments with foreign countries. End Summary.Stalin's ghost haunts the Metro-------------------------------2. (SBU) The specter of Joseph Stalin continues to haunt post-Soviet Russia, as the GOR and average Russians alike struggle to reconcile their pride in past Soviet glories with the harsh fact that the Soviet system, especially under Stalin, destroyed the lives of millions of its citizens. This uneasy and ambivalent relationship with the past is further complicated by a GOR policy of occasionally exploiting nationalistic emotions about Soviet history -- especially the Soviet victory over the Nazis -- to buttress support for its own, modern brand of authoritarianism (ref A). The latest dispute flared up after Moscow City Hall announced on October 27 that it would add Lenin's name to artwork in the Kurskaya Metro station which, since August, has carried a restored verse from the 1944 version of the Soviet anthem praising Stalin. Moscow's chief architect, Aleksandr Kuzmin, told local media that he wanted to \"return Kurskaya to its original appearance,\" which would include a monument to Stalin. An article in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, a paper not always known for liberal opposition, noted wryly that if the goal was to return things to their original appearance, it might be necessary to blanket the entire city with Stalin's image, as authorities had done during the height of Stalin's totalitarian reign of terror. Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov told Interfax October 28 that the city had no intention of placing a Stalin statue in the Metro, and the Moscow Patriarchate criticized the idea of \"Stalinist symbols\" in the Metro, calling it \"divisive.\"Academic freedom under threat?------------------------------3. (C) GOR efforts to sanitize Soviet history have continued throughout the year, and have the potential to reach into numerous walks of life and hence to encroach upon academic freedom. In May, the Kremlin announced that it had formed a \"Commission to Oppose Historical Falsification,\" and its state Duma supporters introduced legislation to defend Russia's honor in any discussion of World War II and the subsequent creation of the Soviet Union (ref B). Less than a month later, in June, XXXXXXXXXXXX leaked to us an email allegedly from V.A. Tishkov, the Chief of the History Section of RAN, politely \"requesting\" all faculty to present him with information in connection with the GOR's May announcement. The information requested included a list of sources of possible \"falsification\" in their field of study, and information about activity among their students promoting the spread of \"falsification\" or of \"concepts damaging to Russia's interests.\" More recently, on October 14, the Moscow Times reported that the German government had written a letter to President Medvedev complaining about an investigation into an Arkhangelsk historian, Mikhail Suprun, for \"violating privacy rights\" by researching deportations of Soviet Germans under Stalin. The police official who gave Suprun access to the archives is also accused of \"abuse of office,\" while Suprun could receive up to four years in prison, and has had what he called \"a lifetime's work\" on computers and research data confiscated by the Federal Security Service (FSB).4. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that she personally knew professors at academic institutions in Moscow who had received such memos during the summer, including memos asking them to \"identify falsifiers.\" She added that the Foreign Intelligence Service also has a presence at RAN. Discussing this potentially disturbing trend, XXXXXXXXXXXX also alluded to the \"unpleasant rewrites\" found in officially sanctioned textbooks which whitewash Stalin's role in the country's history. While acknowledging the existence of \"a broad variety\" of history books (approximately 24 schoolbooks on history are available in bookstores), XXXXXXXXXXXX noted that the official version outnumbers the others by 250,000 books to approximately 10-15,000. Furthermore, in Russia as in the U.S., parents do not buy their children's history books, but rather the schools order them, which XXXXXXXXXXXX said makes theMOSCOW 00002688 002 OF 003choice \"pre-determined.\" On October 24, the liberal Daily Journal reported the release of the latest in a long line of history textbooks rehabilitating Stalin; this one, ironically produced by the \"Enlightenment\" publishing company, denies the existence of totalitarianism in the USSR. The article noted that every time someone brings up the topic of history, it engendered a furious on-line debate.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that a \"virtual war\" has flared up between pro-Kremlin and anti-Kremlin bloggers every time someone published papers on the Internet that they received from state archives 15 years ago detailing Soviet human rights abuses. The papers date back 15 years, XXXXXXXXXXXX explained, because now, \"as in Soviet times,\" people need to complete special applications to receive permission to read such documents. A brief window opened after the fall of the Soviet Union, and just as quickly closed again.The past is not dead; it is not even past-----------------------------------------7. (C) For XXXXXXXXXXXX, such debates tell as much about the present as they do about the past. He believes that the GOR is \"trying to create a newly obedient society,\" which \"as in Orwell,\" only knows history from a standpoint beneficial to the authorities. According to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"when the power structure talks about falsification, they are simply attempting to hide part of history.\" He added that knowledge of the real history carries significant power. He was struck by the \"shock\" of people who learned historical facts, because \"sometimes just one fact can overturn a person's whole world view.\" For example, XXXXXXXXXXXX daughter, who studied in the USSR and teaches history in high school, upon learning that XXXXXXXXXXXX grandfather had been killed in the 1937 purges, talked of little else for several years afterward. According to XXXXXXXXXXX, \"the Kremlin fears people learning about past atrocities and crimes,\" and hence \"tries to manipulate people's consciousness.\" XXXXXXXXXXX added that he understands the GOR's policy, because \"if people knew the extent of Soviet crimes,\" the Kremlin would not be able to control the populace. XXXXXXXXXXXX expressed a similar view, saying that the GOR prefers to present itself as \"infallible, making only correct decisions,\" and that discussions about Stalin's misdeeds might lead to unwanted questions for today's government.8. (C) XXXXXXXXXXX said he suspected that at least some of the pro-Kremlin bloggers who participate in these historical debates were professionals in the pay of the GOR (and perhaps special services). This notion may not be so far-fetched. On October 21, Interfax reported that a supposedly private citizen named Mikhail Baranov had launched an Internet portal called \"Runivers\" to fight \"falsification of history\" by creating a historical and cultural electronic encyclopedia and library. The article describes Baranov's organization as \"non-commercial,\" and does not indicate from where -- during these economically tight times -- it receives its funding. However, a State Duma deputy who is a member of the Runivers board, Vladimir Medinskiy, lamented to Interfax that \"Russia does not have an institution that would be dealing in historical propaganda, which is why we are losing in the war aimed to falsify Russian history.\"A \"wink\" is the easiest response to GOR directives--------------------------------------------- -----9. (C) The fact that Russia currently lacks such a \"historical propaganda\" institution has thus far prevented any widespread attacks on academic freedom in the name of \"anti-falsification.\" XXXXXXXXXXXX, told us October 27 that he had heard no reports from any of his MGU colleagues of any pressure on them to present teaching materials or name names in order to ferret out \"falsification.\" He attributed this at least in part to the fact that, in contrast to neighboring Belarus, Russia has no Ideological Department which examines all teaching materials in schools and universities. XXXXXXXXXXXX also cautioned against leaping to Orwellian conclusions, reminding us not to \"underestimate the cynicism\" involved in administrative requests like the one at RAN. \"Everyone knows how to take such requests,\" she said; the request from the government is \"ugly,\" but unlike in Soviet times, when professors all depended upon the government for their currently there is no way to enforce such decrees. As a result, according to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"people wink\"; the administrators, while passing along the government's request, make it clear to their subordinates that they themselves do not support it. XXXXXXXXXXXX pointed out that many historians may be outraged at the government's heavy-handedness and its \"real falsification of history,\" but they don't see themselves as a unified force.MOSCOW 00002688 003 OF 003The simplest response is to use the power of inertia, and to stonewall passively.Goal of GOR rhetoric: score political points at home--------------------------------------------- -------10. (C) For the GOR's part, it held a session of its Commission during the summer, and its director claimed that participants were \"not here to censor, but simply to oppose\" perceived attempts by other countries to gain at Russia's expense on the geopolitical scene. Although the stated focus is on international disputes, the GOR's primary audience for its hardline stance is domestic. Rhetoric defending Russia's honor on the international stage scores easy political points for the GOR at home. (Note: This occasionally results in some fancy footwork, as when Putin visited Poland on the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and wrote a conciliatory article for his Polish audience, which -- according to Lipman, by GOR design -- received scant coverage in Russian media. End Note.) As XXXXXXXXXXXX said, \"there is a lot of vagueness about the past, but World War II is the one thing everyone in Russia accepts, both liberal and conservative; the narrative is that Germany attacked, and we won.\" That Stalin continues to have a following, 56 years after his death, is undeniable. After Aleksandr Prokhanov, editor-in-chief of the ultranationalist paper Zavtra, praised Stalin on the \"Honest Monday\" political talk show on Gazprom-owned NTV, television audience members were invited to phone in their opinions. Of those who participated, 61 percent called Stalin a hero, 32 percent an enemy, and 7 percent \"a great, effective manager.\"Comment-------11. (C) Recent reports of the death of academic freedom in Russia are greatly exaggerated. GOR leaders have shown that they are willing to adopt nationalistic postures when it buttresses their popular support, but attempts to dictate academic terms thus far appear half-hearted. The GOR is no doubt telling the truth when it claims to place greater focus on external quarrels about its past than on domestic debates. It is undeniable that nationalists continue to link Russia's past greatness with its past political system, which showed disdain for the value of individual human life and for freedom of expression, and that this approach places these fundamental freedoms under threat. However, there remain enough Russians both in and out of the government who question the nationalists' logic and strive to keep the memory of Stalin's victims alive. In the meantime, the GOR occasionally remembers to name a street after Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn just to make sure that nobody confuses them with the Soviets. When discussing this issue, Russians frequently refer to the poet Anna Akhmatova, who, when Khrushchev opened the doors to Stalin's prisons, wrote that the half of Russia who had imprisoned the other half would now come face to face with its victims. Since according to a recent Levada poll, 27 percent of current Russians have relatives who perished under Stalin's rule, that \"other half\" is not going away any time soon. Beyrle", "tags": ["Joseph Stalin", "Russia", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Stalin's spectre haunts Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a \"virtual mafia state\", according to leaked secret diplomatic cables that provide a damning American assessment of its erstwhile rival superpower.Arms trafficking, money laundering, personal enrichment, protection for gangsters, extortion and kickbacks, suitcases full of money and secret offshore bank accounts in Cyprus: the cables paint a bleak picture of a political system in which bribery alone totals an estimated $300bn a year, and in which it is often hard to distinguish between the activities of the government and organised crime.Among the most striking allegations contained in the cables, which were leaked to the whistleblowers' website WikiLeaks, are:\u2022 Russian spies use senior mafia bosses to carry out criminal operations such as arms trafficking.\u2022 Law enforcement agencies such as the police, spy agencies and the prosecutor's office operate a de facto protection racket for criminal networks.\u2022 Rampant bribery acts like a parallel tax system for the personal enrichment of police, officials and the KGB's successor, the federal security service (FSB).\u2022 Investigators looking into Russian mafia links to Spain have compiled a list of Russian prosecutors, military officers and politicians who have dealings with organised crime networks.\u2022 Putin is accused of amassing \"illicit proceeds\" from his time in office, which various sources allege are hidden overseas.The allegations come hours before Putin was due to address Fifa's executive committee in Zurich in support of Russia's bid to host the 2018 World Cup. Putin last night abruptly cancelled his trip, complaining of a smear campaign to \"discredit\" Fifa members. In an angry interview with CNN's Larry King Live, recorded before the latest disclosures, Putin also denounced the cables and warned the US not to stick its nose in Russia's affairs.He made clear he was not amused by a US diplomat's description of him as \"Batman\" and President Dmitry Medvedev as \"Robin\". \"To be honest with you, we did not suspect that this [criticism] could be made with such arrogance, with such rudeness, and you know, so unethically,\" Putin remarked.The principal allegations stem from a Spanish prosecutor, Jos\u00e9 Grinda Gonz\u00e1lez, who has spent more than a decade trying to unravel the activities of Russian organised crime in Spain. Spanish authorities have arrested more than 60 suspects, including the top four mafia bosses outside Russia.In a startling briefing for US officials in January, Grinda said Russia was a \"virtual mafia state\" in which \"one cannot differentiate between the activities of the government and OC [organised crime] groups\".Grinda said he had evidence \u2013 thousands of wiretaps have been used in the last 10 years \u2013 that certain political parties in Russia worked hand in hand with mafia groups. He alleged that intelligence officials orchestrated gun shipments to Kurdish groups to destabilise Turkey and were pulling the strings behind the 2009 case of the Arctic Sea cargo ship suspected of carrying missiles destined for Iran.At the summit of what is known in Russia as the power \"vertical\" lies the Kremlin, a prime beneficiary of the entrenched system of kickbacks, bribes, protection money and suspect contracts.In a detailed and apparently plausible analysis of how corruption in the capital works, the US ambassador John Beyrle cited one source as saying: \"Everything depends on the Kremlin \u2026 [former Moscow mayor Yuri] Luzhkov, as well as many mayors and governors, pay off key insiders in the Kremlin.\"Beneath the Kremlin is a broad layer of top officials \u2013 mayors and governors \u2013 collecting money based on bribes almost like their own personal taxation system. At the next level down the FSB, interior ministry and police collect protection money from businesses, licit and illicit.\"Criminal elements enjoy a krysha [a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning roof or protection] that runs through the police, the federal security service, ministry of internal affairs (MVD) and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy,\" Beyrle noted. \"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government.\"Grinda said the FSB had two ways to eliminate \"OC leaders who do not do what the security services want them to do\". The first was to kill them. The second was to put them in jail to \"eliminate them as a competitor for influence\".Sometimes the FSB put crime lords in prison for their own protection. Luckier crime leaders might end up in parliament. \"The government of Russia takes the relationship with organised crime leaders still further by granting them privileges of politics, in order to grant them immunity from racketeering charges,\" Beyrle noted.The US is not alone in its assessments. In one cable, the Foreign Office's Russia director, Michael Davenport, is quoted as calling Russia a \"corrupt autocracy\".The cables also reveal that the Americans believe Putin was likely to have known about the operation to murder Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006.The Kremlin has denied involvement but a remark by another US ambassador in Moscow, Williams Burns, sums up US attitudestowards the new Russia: \"Whatever the truth may ultimately be [about Litvinenko] \u2013 and it may never be known \u2013 the tendency here to almost automatically assume that someone in or close to Putin's inner-circle is the author of these deaths speaks volumes about expectations of Kremlin behaviour.\"Russia's foreign intelligence chief said yesterday that he would order his spies to study the cables relating to Russia. Mikhail Fradkov, the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service (SVR), told the ITAR-TASS news agency: \"There are many issues which have been revealed by the disclosure by WikiLeaks \u2013 this is material for analysis. We shall report our conclusions to the leadership of the country.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 2 December 2010. The original gave an incomplete name for a Spanish prosecutor, referring to him as Jos\u00e9 Gonz\u00e1lez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Spain", "Mafia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables condemn Russia as 'mafia state'"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-02T13:38:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Friday, 30 October 2009, 11:53C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 MOSCOW 002688 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 10/26/2019 TAGS PGOV, PHUM, KDEM, RS SUBJECT: IS STALIN'S GHOST A THREAT TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM? REF: A) MOSCOW 2586 B) MOSCOW 1349Classified By: Pol Min Counselor Susan Elliott for reason 1.4 (d)1. (C) Summary: Efforts to sanitize Stalin's role in Soviet history may be potentially damaging to academic freedom and linked to GOR efforts to increase authoritarian rule. Although some recent incidents have caused concern among human rights monitors, thus far GOR efforts to enlist academics to help oppose \"falsification of history\" have not been strongly enforced. GOR rhetoric on the subject appears largely aimed at scoring political points in arguments with foreign countries. End Summary.Stalin's ghost haunts the Metro-------------------------------2. (SBU) The specter of Joseph Stalin continues to haunt post-Soviet Russia, as the GOR and average Russians alike struggle to reconcile their pride in past Soviet glories with the harsh fact that the Soviet system, especially under Stalin, destroyed the lives of millions of its citizens. This uneasy and ambivalent relationship with the past is further complicated by a GOR policy of occasionally exploiting nationalistic emotions about Soviet history -- especially the Soviet victory over the Nazis -- to buttress support for its own, modern brand of authoritarianism (ref A). The latest dispute flared up after Moscow City Hall announced on October 27 that it would add Lenin's name to artwork in the Kurskaya Metro station which, since August, has carried a restored verse from the 1944 version of the Soviet anthem praising Stalin. Moscow's chief architect, Aleksandr Kuzmin, told local media that he wanted to \"return Kurskaya to its original appearance,\" which would include a monument to Stalin. An article in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, a paper not always known for liberal opposition, noted wryly that if the goal was to return things to their original appearance, it might be necessary to blanket the entire city with Stalin's image, as authorities had done during the height of Stalin's totalitarian reign of terror. Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov told Interfax October 28 that the city had no intention of placing a Stalin statue in the Metro, and the Moscow Patriarchate criticized the idea of \"Stalinist symbols\" in the Metro, calling it \"divisive.\"Academic freedom under threat?------------------------------3. (C) GOR efforts to sanitize Soviet history have continued throughout the year, and have the potential to reach into numerous walks of life and hence to encroach upon academic freedom. In May, the Kremlin announced that it had formed a \"Commission to Oppose Historical Falsification,\" and its state Duma supporters introduced legislation to defend Russia's honor in any discussion of World War II and the subsequent creation of the Soviet Union (ref B). Less than a month later, in June, XXXXXXXXXXXX leaked to us an email allegedly from V.A. Tishkov, the Chief of the History Section of RAN, politely \"requesting\" all faculty to present him with information in connection with the GOR's May announcement. The information requested included a list of sources of possible \"falsification\" in their field of study, and information about activity among their students promoting the spread of \"falsification\" or of \"concepts damaging to Russia's interests.\" More recently, on October 14, the Moscow Times reported that the German government had written a letter to President Medvedev complaining about an investigation into an Arkhangelsk historian, Mikhail Suprun, for \"violating privacy rights\" by researching deportations of Soviet Germans under Stalin. The police official who gave Suprun access to the archives is also accused of \"abuse of office,\" while Suprun could receive up to four years in prison, and has had what he called \"a lifetime's work\" on computers and research data confiscated by the Federal Security Service (FSB).4. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that she personally knew professors at academic institutions in Moscow who had received such memos during the summer, including memos asking them to \"identify falsifiers.\" She added that the Foreign Intelligence Service also has a presence at RAN. Discussing this potentially disturbing trend, XXXXXXXXXXXX also alluded to the \"unpleasant rewrites\" found in officially sanctioned textbooks which whitewash Stalin's role in the country's history. While acknowledging the existence of \"a broad variety\" of history books (approximately 24 schoolbooks on history are available in bookstores), XXXXXXXXXXXX noted that the official version outnumbers the others by 250,000 books to approximately 10-15,000. Furthermore, in Russia as in the U.S., parents do not buy their children's history books, but rather the schools order them, which XXXXXXXXXXXX said makes theMOSCOW 00002688 002 OF 003choice \"pre-determined.\" On October 24, the liberal Daily Journal reported the release of the latest in a long line of history textbooks rehabilitating Stalin; this one, ironically produced by the \"Enlightenment\" publishing company, denies the existence of totalitarianism in the USSR. The article noted that every time someone brings up the topic of history, it engendered a furious on-line debate.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that a \"virtual war\" has flared up between pro-Kremlin and anti-Kremlin bloggers every time someone published papers on the Internet that they received from state archives 15 years ago detailing Soviet human rights abuses. The papers date back 15 years, XXXXXXXXXXXX explained, because now, \"as in Soviet times,\" people need to complete special applications to receive permission to read such documents. A brief window opened after the fall of the Soviet Union, and just as quickly closed again.The past is not dead; it is not even past-----------------------------------------7. (C) For XXXXXXXXXXXX, such debates tell as much about the present as they do about the past. He believes that the GOR is \"trying to create a newly obedient society,\" which \"as in Orwell,\" only knows history from a standpoint beneficial to the authorities. According to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"when the power structure talks about falsification, they are simply attempting to hide part of history.\" He added that knowledge of the real history carries significant power. He was struck by the \"shock\" of people who learned historical facts, because \"sometimes just one fact can overturn a person's whole world view.\" For example, XXXXXXXXXXXX daughter, who studied in the USSR and teaches history in high school, upon learning that XXXXXXXXXXXX grandfather had been killed in the 1937 purges, talked of little else for several years afterward. According to XXXXXXXXXXX, \"the Kremlin fears people learning about past atrocities and crimes,\" and hence \"tries to manipulate people's consciousness.\" XXXXXXXXXXX added that he understands the GOR's policy, because \"if people knew the extent of Soviet crimes,\" the Kremlin would not be able to control the populace. XXXXXXXXXXXX expressed a similar view, saying that the GOR prefers to present itself as \"infallible, making only correct decisions,\" and that discussions about Stalin's misdeeds might lead to unwanted questions for today's government.8. (C) XXXXXXXXXXX said he suspected that at least some of the pro-Kremlin bloggers who participate in these historical debates were professionals in the pay of the GOR (and perhaps special services). This notion may not be so far-fetched. On October 21, Interfax reported that a supposedly private citizen named Mikhail Baranov had launched an Internet portal called \"Runivers\" to fight \"falsification of history\" by creating a historical and cultural electronic encyclopedia and library. The article describes Baranov's organization as \"non-commercial,\" and does not indicate from where -- during these economically tight times -- it receives its funding. However, a State Duma deputy who is a member of the Runivers board, Vladimir Medinskiy, lamented to Interfax that \"Russia does not have an institution that would be dealing in historical propaganda, which is why we are losing in the war aimed to falsify Russian history.\"A \"wink\" is the easiest response to GOR directives--------------------------------------------- -----9. (C) The fact that Russia currently lacks such a \"historical propaganda\" institution has thus far prevented any widespread attacks on academic freedom in the name of \"anti-falsification.\" XXXXXXXXXXXX, told us October 27 that he had heard no reports from any of his MGU colleagues of any pressure on them to present teaching materials or name names in order to ferret out \"falsification.\" He attributed this at least in part to the fact that, in contrast to neighboring Belarus, Russia has no Ideological Department which examines all teaching materials in schools and universities. XXXXXXXXXXXX also cautioned against leaping to Orwellian conclusions, reminding us not to \"underestimate the cynicism\" involved in administrative requests like the one at RAN. \"Everyone knows how to take such requests,\" she said; the request from the government is \"ugly,\" but unlike in Soviet times, when professors all depended upon the government for their currently there is no way to enforce such decrees. As a result, according to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"people wink\"; the administrators, while passing along the government's request, make it clear to their subordinates that they themselves do not support it. XXXXXXXXXXXX pointed out that many historians may be outraged at the government's heavy-handedness and its \"real falsification of history,\" but they don't see themselves as a unified force.MOSCOW 00002688 003 OF 003The simplest response is to use the power of inertia, and to stonewall passively.Goal of GOR rhetoric: score political points at home--------------------------------------------- -------10. (C) For the GOR's part, it held a session of its Commission during the summer, and its director claimed that participants were \"not here to censor, but simply to oppose\" perceived attempts by other countries to gain at Russia's expense on the geopolitical scene. Although the stated focus is on international disputes, the GOR's primary audience for its hardline stance is domestic. Rhetoric defending Russia's honor on the international stage scores easy political points for the GOR at home. (Note: This occasionally results in some fancy footwork, as when Putin visited Poland on the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and wrote a conciliatory article for his Polish audience, which -- according to Lipman, by GOR design -- received scant coverage in Russian media. End Note.) As XXXXXXXXXXXX said, \"there is a lot of vagueness about the past, but World War II is the one thing everyone in Russia accepts, both liberal and conservative; the narrative is that Germany attacked, and we won.\" That Stalin continues to have a following, 56 years after his death, is undeniable. After Aleksandr Prokhanov, editor-in-chief of the ultranationalist paper Zavtra, praised Stalin on the \"Honest Monday\" political talk show on Gazprom-owned NTV, television audience members were invited to phone in their opinions. Of those who participated, 61 percent called Stalin a hero, 32 percent an enemy, and 7 percent \"a great, effective manager.\"Comment-------11. (C) Recent reports of the death of academic freedom in Russia are greatly exaggerated. GOR leaders have shown that they are willing to adopt nationalistic postures when it buttresses their popular support, but attempts to dictate academic terms thus far appear half-hearted. The GOR is no doubt telling the truth when it claims to place greater focus on external quarrels about its past than on domestic debates. It is undeniable that nationalists continue to link Russia's past greatness with its past political system, which showed disdain for the value of individual human life and for freedom of expression, and that this approach places these fundamental freedoms under threat. However, there remain enough Russians both in and out of the government who question the nationalists' logic and strive to keep the memory of Stalin's victims alive. In the meantime, the GOR occasionally remembers to name a street after Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn just to make sure that nobody confuses them with the Soviets. When discussing this issue, Russians frequently refer to the poet Anna Akhmatova, who, when Khrushchev opened the doors to Stalin's prisons, wrote that the half of Russia who had imprisoned the other half would now come face to face with its victims. Since according to a recent Levada poll, 27 percent of current Russians have relatives who perished under Stalin's rule, that \"other half\" is not going away any time soon. Beyrle", "tags": ["Joseph Stalin", "Russia", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Stalin's spectre haunts Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a \"virtual mafia state\", according to leaked secret diplomatic cables that provide a damning American assessment of its erstwhile rival superpower.Arms trafficking, money laundering, personal enrichment, protection for gangsters, extortion and kickbacks, suitcases full of money and secret offshore bank accounts in Cyprus: the cables paint a bleak picture of a political system in which bribery alone totals an estimated $300bn a year, and in which it is often hard to distinguish between the activities of the government and organised crime.Among the most striking allegations contained in the cables, which were leaked to the whistleblowers' website WikiLeaks, are:\u2022 Russian spies use senior mafia bosses to carry out criminal operations such as arms trafficking.\u2022 Law enforcement agencies such as the police, spy agencies and the prosecutor's office operate a de facto protection racket for criminal networks.\u2022 Rampant bribery acts like a parallel tax system for the personal enrichment of police, officials and the KGB's successor, the federal security service (FSB).\u2022 Investigators looking into Russian mafia links to Spain have compiled a list of Russian prosecutors, military officers and politicians who have dealings with organised crime networks.\u2022 Putin is accused of amassing \"illicit proceeds\" from his time in office, which various sources allege are hidden overseas.The allegations come hours before Putin was due to address Fifa's executive committee in Zurich in support of Russia's bid to host the 2018 World Cup. Putin last night abruptly cancelled his trip, complaining of a smear campaign to \"discredit\" Fifa members. In an angry interview with CNN's Larry King Live, recorded before the latest disclosures, Putin also denounced the cables and warned the US not to stick its nose in Russia's affairs.He made clear he was not amused by a US diplomat's description of him as \"Batman\" and President Dmitry Medvedev as \"Robin\". \"To be honest with you, we did not suspect that this [criticism] could be made with such arrogance, with such rudeness, and you know, so unethically,\" Putin remarked.The principal allegations stem from a Spanish prosecutor, Jos\u00e9 Grinda Gonz\u00e1lez, who has spent more than a decade trying to unravel the activities of Russian organised crime in Spain. Spanish authorities have arrested more than 60 suspects, including the top four mafia bosses outside Russia.In a startling briefing for US officials in January, Grinda said Russia was a \"virtual mafia state\" in which \"one cannot differentiate between the activities of the government and OC [organised crime] groups\".Grinda said he had evidence \u2013 thousands of wiretaps have been used in the last 10 years \u2013 that certain political parties in Russia worked hand in hand with mafia groups. He alleged that intelligence officials orchestrated gun shipments to Kurdish groups to destabilise Turkey and were pulling the strings behind the 2009 case of the Arctic Sea cargo ship suspected of carrying missiles destined for Iran.At the summit of what is known in Russia as the power \"vertical\" lies the Kremlin, a prime beneficiary of the entrenched system of kickbacks, bribes, protection money and suspect contracts.In a detailed and apparently plausible analysis of how corruption in the capital works, the US ambassador John Beyrle cited one source as saying: \"Everything depends on the Kremlin \u2026 [former Moscow mayor Yuri] Luzhkov, as well as many mayors and governors, pay off key insiders in the Kremlin.\"Beneath the Kremlin is a broad layer of top officials \u2013 mayors and governors \u2013 collecting money based on bribes almost like their own personal taxation system. At the next level down the FSB, interior ministry and police collect protection money from businesses, licit and illicit.\"Criminal elements enjoy a krysha [a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning roof or protection] that runs through the police, the federal security service, ministry of internal affairs (MVD) and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy,\" Beyrle noted. \"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government.\"Grinda said the FSB had two ways to eliminate \"OC leaders who do not do what the security services want them to do\". The first was to kill them. The second was to put them in jail to \"eliminate them as a competitor for influence\".Sometimes the FSB put crime lords in prison for their own protection. Luckier crime leaders might end up in parliament. \"The government of Russia takes the relationship with organised crime leaders still further by granting them privileges of politics, in order to grant them immunity from racketeering charges,\" Beyrle noted.The US is not alone in its assessments. In one cable, the Foreign Office's Russia director, Michael Davenport, is quoted as calling Russia a \"corrupt autocracy\".The cables also reveal that the Americans believe Putin was likely to have known about the operation to murder Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006.The Kremlin has denied involvement but a remark by another US ambassador in Moscow, Williams Burns, sums up US attitudestowards the new Russia: \"Whatever the truth may ultimately be [about Litvinenko] \u2013 and it may never be known \u2013 the tendency here to almost automatically assume that someone in or close to Putin's inner-circle is the author of these deaths speaks volumes about expectations of Kremlin behaviour.\"Russia's foreign intelligence chief said yesterday that he would order his spies to study the cables relating to Russia. Mikhail Fradkov, the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service (SVR), told the ITAR-TASS news agency: \"There are many issues which have been revealed by the disclosure by WikiLeaks \u2013 this is material for analysis. We shall report our conclusions to the leadership of the country.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 2 December 2010. The original gave an incomplete name for a Spanish prosecutor, referring to him as Jos\u00e9 Gonz\u00e1lez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Spain", "Mafia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables condemn Russia as 'mafia state'"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia provided Grad missiles and other arms to separatists in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and carried out a wave of \"covert actions\" to undermine Georgia in the runup to the 2008 Russian-Georgian war, US diplomatic cables say.The Kremlin's hostile measures against Georgia included missile attacks, murder plots and \"a host of smaller-scale actions\", the leaked cables said. Russian secret services also ran a disinformation campaign against Georgia's pro-American, pro-Nato president, Mikheil Saakashvili, claiming he suffered from \"paranoid dysfunction\".\"The cumulative weight of the evidence of the last few years suggests that the Russians are aggressively playing a high-stakes covert game, and they consider few if any holds barred,\" the US ambassador in Tbilisi, John Tefft, wrote on 20 August 2007 in a classified cable.One Kremlin aim was to remove Saakashvili, Tefft wrote. But the \"variety and extent of the active measures suggests the deeper goal is turning Georgia from its Euroatlantic orientation back into the Russian fold\", he said. Its aim was also to \"provoke the Georgian leadership into a rash reaction that separates Georgia further from the west\".In the cable Tefft reviewed a long list of suspected Russian actions aimed at destabilising Georgia. These included a missile attack in Kodori \u2013 an area of Abkhazia then controlled by Georgia \u2013 the blowing up of a Georgian police car, and a suspected plot to kill an opposition figure.Tefft said there was incontrovertible evidence that Moscow was giving \"direct, if at times thinly veiled, support\" to Georgia's two separatist regions against the wishes of the Georgian government. This support was also military: \"The South Ossetians have reportedly received arms and equipment from Russia, including Grad missiles, on various occasions, including during recent tensions.\"The ambassador's leaked cables are likely to reopen the acrimonious and still inconclusive debate over who was to blame for starting the 2008 war. Russia insists Saakashvili triggered the conflict by sending tanks in to recapture South Ossetia, prompting Russia to launch its own counteroperation to protect the lives of Russian citizens.Saakashvili, however, insists he was forced to act after intolerable Russian provocation. He has blamed Moscow for deliberately frustrating his attempts to reach a deal with South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and has said the Russians financed, armed, guided and nurtured the two separatist movements.The cables broadly support Saakashvili's view. In his dispatches to Washington the ambassador reported that Russia's FSB spy agency directly controlled South Ossetia, with Russian FSB agents sitting in the government of rebel president Eduard Kokoity. \"In South Ossetia, many de facto cabinet ministers and advisers to Kokoity are Russian officials \u2013 in most cases believed to be FSB,\" Tefft wrote, noting that the FSB agents were rotated in and out of Russia.Russia even paid the salaries of police and other civil servants in South Ossetia \u2013 and increased their wages to stop them from defecting to a Georgian-backed rival administration. It also handed out Russian passports to 95% per cent of the enclave's residents, Tefft said, \u2013 creating instant citizens whom Russia would \"defend\" the following year.Tefft acknowledged that Abkhazia's de facto government had a \"somewhat greater degree of independence from Moscow\" than its South Ossetian counterpart. But he said it was evident the Russians still had \"great leverage\" over Abkhazia's Soviet-mentality president, Sergei Bagapsh, who frequently travelled to Moscow for consultations.When Bagapsh fell ill in April 2007, he was flown to Moscow for emergency treatment on an FSB plane, Tefft said, citing information from the Georgians. Tefft went on: \"Several sources have also told us that a senior FSB officer actually lives in a separate residence on Bagapsh's presidential compound.\"The cables make clear that in the months leading up to the war the Bush administration urged Saakashvili to shrug off Russia's goading and act with restraint. In a meeting in Paris on 13 June 2007, William Burns, then the US ambassador to Moscow, advised Saakashvili to \"avoid antagonising them [the Russians]\".Burns expressed sympathy with the predicament of Saakashvili, who told the Americans he believed Putin was \"personally committed to removing Abkhazia from Georgia\" \u2013 a prophecy that turned out to be correct. He said Russia couldn't be trusted, and called for a Nato membership action plan for Georgia as a \"'deterrent' against Russian adventurism\".The cables also chronicle Russia's anger and growing frustration with Georgia. In November 2006 Russia's deputy foreign minister, Grigoriy Karasin, complained to Matt Bryza, the US deputy assistant secretary of state, after Tbilisi arrested four Russian officers on espionage charges. \"Our patience is at an end,\" Karasin said.According to a cable written by Burns, Bryza said the US had warned Saakashvili not to engage in any military action. \"He (Byrza) has been clear with Saakashvili: if Georgia uses force or stumbles into a conflict, Saakashvili will find himself alone, blamed by the international community for recklessness.\" When the war began most western governments, including the UK, blamed the Kremlin \u2013 seeing Russia's military operation not as a peacekeeping mission but an old-style invasion. To the chagrin of Washington, Moscow swiftly recognised South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent, arguing that the Americans had done the same thing with Kosovo.The cables reveal that Russia's actions prompted much diplomatic soul-searching. On 28 August 2008 \u2013 soon after the French president, Nicholas Sarkozy, brokered an EU peace deal \u2013 the Foreign Office's defence and intelligence officials pondered the war's implications. Mariot Leslie \u2013 now the UK's ambassador to Nato \u2013 dubbed it a \"strategic tectonic shift in international relations\", the US embassy in London recorded.Asked whether Russia's decision to go into Georgia was part of an overall change of strategy, Leslie replied with exquisite equivocation. She said she was \"still assessing if it was a strategic decision or a tactical decision with strategic consequences\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Arms trade", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US national security", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables claim Russia armed Georgian separatists"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-02T13:38:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Friday, 30 October 2009, 11:53C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 MOSCOW 002688 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 10/26/2019 TAGS PGOV, PHUM, KDEM, RS SUBJECT: IS STALIN'S GHOST A THREAT TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM? REF: A) MOSCOW 2586 B) MOSCOW 1349Classified By: Pol Min Counselor Susan Elliott for reason 1.4 (d)1. (C) Summary: Efforts to sanitize Stalin's role in Soviet history may be potentially damaging to academic freedom and linked to GOR efforts to increase authoritarian rule. Although some recent incidents have caused concern among human rights monitors, thus far GOR efforts to enlist academics to help oppose \"falsification of history\" have not been strongly enforced. GOR rhetoric on the subject appears largely aimed at scoring political points in arguments with foreign countries. End Summary.Stalin's ghost haunts the Metro-------------------------------2. (SBU) The specter of Joseph Stalin continues to haunt post-Soviet Russia, as the GOR and average Russians alike struggle to reconcile their pride in past Soviet glories with the harsh fact that the Soviet system, especially under Stalin, destroyed the lives of millions of its citizens. This uneasy and ambivalent relationship with the past is further complicated by a GOR policy of occasionally exploiting nationalistic emotions about Soviet history -- especially the Soviet victory over the Nazis -- to buttress support for its own, modern brand of authoritarianism (ref A). The latest dispute flared up after Moscow City Hall announced on October 27 that it would add Lenin's name to artwork in the Kurskaya Metro station which, since August, has carried a restored verse from the 1944 version of the Soviet anthem praising Stalin. Moscow's chief architect, Aleksandr Kuzmin, told local media that he wanted to \"return Kurskaya to its original appearance,\" which would include a monument to Stalin. An article in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, a paper not always known for liberal opposition, noted wryly that if the goal was to return things to their original appearance, it might be necessary to blanket the entire city with Stalin's image, as authorities had done during the height of Stalin's totalitarian reign of terror. Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov told Interfax October 28 that the city had no intention of placing a Stalin statue in the Metro, and the Moscow Patriarchate criticized the idea of \"Stalinist symbols\" in the Metro, calling it \"divisive.\"Academic freedom under threat?------------------------------3. (C) GOR efforts to sanitize Soviet history have continued throughout the year, and have the potential to reach into numerous walks of life and hence to encroach upon academic freedom. In May, the Kremlin announced that it had formed a \"Commission to Oppose Historical Falsification,\" and its state Duma supporters introduced legislation to defend Russia's honor in any discussion of World War II and the subsequent creation of the Soviet Union (ref B). Less than a month later, in June, XXXXXXXXXXXX leaked to us an email allegedly from V.A. Tishkov, the Chief of the History Section of RAN, politely \"requesting\" all faculty to present him with information in connection with the GOR's May announcement. The information requested included a list of sources of possible \"falsification\" in their field of study, and information about activity among their students promoting the spread of \"falsification\" or of \"concepts damaging to Russia's interests.\" More recently, on October 14, the Moscow Times reported that the German government had written a letter to President Medvedev complaining about an investigation into an Arkhangelsk historian, Mikhail Suprun, for \"violating privacy rights\" by researching deportations of Soviet Germans under Stalin. The police official who gave Suprun access to the archives is also accused of \"abuse of office,\" while Suprun could receive up to four years in prison, and has had what he called \"a lifetime's work\" on computers and research data confiscated by the Federal Security Service (FSB).4. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that she personally knew professors at academic institutions in Moscow who had received such memos during the summer, including memos asking them to \"identify falsifiers.\" She added that the Foreign Intelligence Service also has a presence at RAN. Discussing this potentially disturbing trend, XXXXXXXXXXXX also alluded to the \"unpleasant rewrites\" found in officially sanctioned textbooks which whitewash Stalin's role in the country's history. While acknowledging the existence of \"a broad variety\" of history books (approximately 24 schoolbooks on history are available in bookstores), XXXXXXXXXXXX noted that the official version outnumbers the others by 250,000 books to approximately 10-15,000. Furthermore, in Russia as in the U.S., parents do not buy their children's history books, but rather the schools order them, which XXXXXXXXXXXX said makes theMOSCOW 00002688 002 OF 003choice \"pre-determined.\" On October 24, the liberal Daily Journal reported the release of the latest in a long line of history textbooks rehabilitating Stalin; this one, ironically produced by the \"Enlightenment\" publishing company, denies the existence of totalitarianism in the USSR. The article noted that every time someone brings up the topic of history, it engendered a furious on-line debate.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that a \"virtual war\" has flared up between pro-Kremlin and anti-Kremlin bloggers every time someone published papers on the Internet that they received from state archives 15 years ago detailing Soviet human rights abuses. The papers date back 15 years, XXXXXXXXXXXX explained, because now, \"as in Soviet times,\" people need to complete special applications to receive permission to read such documents. A brief window opened after the fall of the Soviet Union, and just as quickly closed again.The past is not dead; it is not even past-----------------------------------------7. (C) For XXXXXXXXXXXX, such debates tell as much about the present as they do about the past. He believes that the GOR is \"trying to create a newly obedient society,\" which \"as in Orwell,\" only knows history from a standpoint beneficial to the authorities. According to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"when the power structure talks about falsification, they are simply attempting to hide part of history.\" He added that knowledge of the real history carries significant power. He was struck by the \"shock\" of people who learned historical facts, because \"sometimes just one fact can overturn a person's whole world view.\" For example, XXXXXXXXXXXX daughter, who studied in the USSR and teaches history in high school, upon learning that XXXXXXXXXXXX grandfather had been killed in the 1937 purges, talked of little else for several years afterward. According to XXXXXXXXXXX, \"the Kremlin fears people learning about past atrocities and crimes,\" and hence \"tries to manipulate people's consciousness.\" XXXXXXXXXXX added that he understands the GOR's policy, because \"if people knew the extent of Soviet crimes,\" the Kremlin would not be able to control the populace. XXXXXXXXXXXX expressed a similar view, saying that the GOR prefers to present itself as \"infallible, making only correct decisions,\" and that discussions about Stalin's misdeeds might lead to unwanted questions for today's government.8. (C) XXXXXXXXXXX said he suspected that at least some of the pro-Kremlin bloggers who participate in these historical debates were professionals in the pay of the GOR (and perhaps special services). This notion may not be so far-fetched. On October 21, Interfax reported that a supposedly private citizen named Mikhail Baranov had launched an Internet portal called \"Runivers\" to fight \"falsification of history\" by creating a historical and cultural electronic encyclopedia and library. The article describes Baranov's organization as \"non-commercial,\" and does not indicate from where -- during these economically tight times -- it receives its funding. However, a State Duma deputy who is a member of the Runivers board, Vladimir Medinskiy, lamented to Interfax that \"Russia does not have an institution that would be dealing in historical propaganda, which is why we are losing in the war aimed to falsify Russian history.\"A \"wink\" is the easiest response to GOR directives--------------------------------------------- -----9. (C) The fact that Russia currently lacks such a \"historical propaganda\" institution has thus far prevented any widespread attacks on academic freedom in the name of \"anti-falsification.\" XXXXXXXXXXXX, told us October 27 that he had heard no reports from any of his MGU colleagues of any pressure on them to present teaching materials or name names in order to ferret out \"falsification.\" He attributed this at least in part to the fact that, in contrast to neighboring Belarus, Russia has no Ideological Department which examines all teaching materials in schools and universities. XXXXXXXXXXXX also cautioned against leaping to Orwellian conclusions, reminding us not to \"underestimate the cynicism\" involved in administrative requests like the one at RAN. \"Everyone knows how to take such requests,\" she said; the request from the government is \"ugly,\" but unlike in Soviet times, when professors all depended upon the government for their currently there is no way to enforce such decrees. As a result, according to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"people wink\"; the administrators, while passing along the government's request, make it clear to their subordinates that they themselves do not support it. XXXXXXXXXXXX pointed out that many historians may be outraged at the government's heavy-handedness and its \"real falsification of history,\" but they don't see themselves as a unified force.MOSCOW 00002688 003 OF 003The simplest response is to use the power of inertia, and to stonewall passively.Goal of GOR rhetoric: score political points at home--------------------------------------------- -------10. (C) For the GOR's part, it held a session of its Commission during the summer, and its director claimed that participants were \"not here to censor, but simply to oppose\" perceived attempts by other countries to gain at Russia's expense on the geopolitical scene. Although the stated focus is on international disputes, the GOR's primary audience for its hardline stance is domestic. Rhetoric defending Russia's honor on the international stage scores easy political points for the GOR at home. (Note: This occasionally results in some fancy footwork, as when Putin visited Poland on the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and wrote a conciliatory article for his Polish audience, which -- according to Lipman, by GOR design -- received scant coverage in Russian media. End Note.) As XXXXXXXXXXXX said, \"there is a lot of vagueness about the past, but World War II is the one thing everyone in Russia accepts, both liberal and conservative; the narrative is that Germany attacked, and we won.\" That Stalin continues to have a following, 56 years after his death, is undeniable. After Aleksandr Prokhanov, editor-in-chief of the ultranationalist paper Zavtra, praised Stalin on the \"Honest Monday\" political talk show on Gazprom-owned NTV, television audience members were invited to phone in their opinions. Of those who participated, 61 percent called Stalin a hero, 32 percent an enemy, and 7 percent \"a great, effective manager.\"Comment-------11. (C) Recent reports of the death of academic freedom in Russia are greatly exaggerated. GOR leaders have shown that they are willing to adopt nationalistic postures when it buttresses their popular support, but attempts to dictate academic terms thus far appear half-hearted. The GOR is no doubt telling the truth when it claims to place greater focus on external quarrels about its past than on domestic debates. It is undeniable that nationalists continue to link Russia's past greatness with its past political system, which showed disdain for the value of individual human life and for freedom of expression, and that this approach places these fundamental freedoms under threat. However, there remain enough Russians both in and out of the government who question the nationalists' logic and strive to keep the memory of Stalin's victims alive. In the meantime, the GOR occasionally remembers to name a street after Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn just to make sure that nobody confuses them with the Soviets. When discussing this issue, Russians frequently refer to the poet Anna Akhmatova, who, when Khrushchev opened the doors to Stalin's prisons, wrote that the half of Russia who had imprisoned the other half would now come face to face with its victims. Since according to a recent Levada poll, 27 percent of current Russians have relatives who perished under Stalin's rule, that \"other half\" is not going away any time soon. Beyrle", "tags": ["Joseph Stalin", "Russia", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Stalin's spectre haunts Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a \"virtual mafia state\", according to leaked secret diplomatic cables that provide a damning American assessment of its erstwhile rival superpower.Arms trafficking, money laundering, personal enrichment, protection for gangsters, extortion and kickbacks, suitcases full of money and secret offshore bank accounts in Cyprus: the cables paint a bleak picture of a political system in which bribery alone totals an estimated $300bn a year, and in which it is often hard to distinguish between the activities of the government and organised crime.Among the most striking allegations contained in the cables, which were leaked to the whistleblowers' website WikiLeaks, are:\u2022 Russian spies use senior mafia bosses to carry out criminal operations such as arms trafficking.\u2022 Law enforcement agencies such as the police, spy agencies and the prosecutor's office operate a de facto protection racket for criminal networks.\u2022 Rampant bribery acts like a parallel tax system for the personal enrichment of police, officials and the KGB's successor, the federal security service (FSB).\u2022 Investigators looking into Russian mafia links to Spain have compiled a list of Russian prosecutors, military officers and politicians who have dealings with organised crime networks.\u2022 Putin is accused of amassing \"illicit proceeds\" from his time in office, which various sources allege are hidden overseas.The allegations come hours before Putin was due to address Fifa's executive committee in Zurich in support of Russia's bid to host the 2018 World Cup. Putin last night abruptly cancelled his trip, complaining of a smear campaign to \"discredit\" Fifa members. In an angry interview with CNN's Larry King Live, recorded before the latest disclosures, Putin also denounced the cables and warned the US not to stick its nose in Russia's affairs.He made clear he was not amused by a US diplomat's description of him as \"Batman\" and President Dmitry Medvedev as \"Robin\". \"To be honest with you, we did not suspect that this [criticism] could be made with such arrogance, with such rudeness, and you know, so unethically,\" Putin remarked.The principal allegations stem from a Spanish prosecutor, Jos\u00e9 Grinda Gonz\u00e1lez, who has spent more than a decade trying to unravel the activities of Russian organised crime in Spain. Spanish authorities have arrested more than 60 suspects, including the top four mafia bosses outside Russia.In a startling briefing for US officials in January, Grinda said Russia was a \"virtual mafia state\" in which \"one cannot differentiate between the activities of the government and OC [organised crime] groups\".Grinda said he had evidence \u2013 thousands of wiretaps have been used in the last 10 years \u2013 that certain political parties in Russia worked hand in hand with mafia groups. He alleged that intelligence officials orchestrated gun shipments to Kurdish groups to destabilise Turkey and were pulling the strings behind the 2009 case of the Arctic Sea cargo ship suspected of carrying missiles destined for Iran.At the summit of what is known in Russia as the power \"vertical\" lies the Kremlin, a prime beneficiary of the entrenched system of kickbacks, bribes, protection money and suspect contracts.In a detailed and apparently plausible analysis of how corruption in the capital works, the US ambassador John Beyrle cited one source as saying: \"Everything depends on the Kremlin \u2026 [former Moscow mayor Yuri] Luzhkov, as well as many mayors and governors, pay off key insiders in the Kremlin.\"Beneath the Kremlin is a broad layer of top officials \u2013 mayors and governors \u2013 collecting money based on bribes almost like their own personal taxation system. At the next level down the FSB, interior ministry and police collect protection money from businesses, licit and illicit.\"Criminal elements enjoy a krysha [a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning roof or protection] that runs through the police, the federal security service, ministry of internal affairs (MVD) and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy,\" Beyrle noted. \"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government.\"Grinda said the FSB had two ways to eliminate \"OC leaders who do not do what the security services want them to do\". The first was to kill them. The second was to put them in jail to \"eliminate them as a competitor for influence\".Sometimes the FSB put crime lords in prison for their own protection. Luckier crime leaders might end up in parliament. \"The government of Russia takes the relationship with organised crime leaders still further by granting them privileges of politics, in order to grant them immunity from racketeering charges,\" Beyrle noted.The US is not alone in its assessments. In one cable, the Foreign Office's Russia director, Michael Davenport, is quoted as calling Russia a \"corrupt autocracy\".The cables also reveal that the Americans believe Putin was likely to have known about the operation to murder Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006.The Kremlin has denied involvement but a remark by another US ambassador in Moscow, Williams Burns, sums up US attitudestowards the new Russia: \"Whatever the truth may ultimately be [about Litvinenko] \u2013 and it may never be known \u2013 the tendency here to almost automatically assume that someone in or close to Putin's inner-circle is the author of these deaths speaks volumes about expectations of Kremlin behaviour.\"Russia's foreign intelligence chief said yesterday that he would order his spies to study the cables relating to Russia. Mikhail Fradkov, the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service (SVR), told the ITAR-TASS news agency: \"There are many issues which have been revealed by the disclosure by WikiLeaks \u2013 this is material for analysis. We shall report our conclusions to the leadership of the country.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 2 December 2010. The original gave an incomplete name for a Spanish prosecutor, referring to him as Jos\u00e9 Gonz\u00e1lez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Spain", "Mafia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables condemn Russia as 'mafia state'"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia provided Grad missiles and other arms to separatists in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and carried out a wave of \"covert actions\" to undermine Georgia in the runup to the 2008 Russian-Georgian war, US diplomatic cables say.The Kremlin's hostile measures against Georgia included missile attacks, murder plots and \"a host of smaller-scale actions\", the leaked cables said. Russian secret services also ran a disinformation campaign against Georgia's pro-American, pro-Nato president, Mikheil Saakashvili, claiming he suffered from \"paranoid dysfunction\".\"The cumulative weight of the evidence of the last few years suggests that the Russians are aggressively playing a high-stakes covert game, and they consider few if any holds barred,\" the US ambassador in Tbilisi, John Tefft, wrote on 20 August 2007 in a classified cable.One Kremlin aim was to remove Saakashvili, Tefft wrote. But the \"variety and extent of the active measures suggests the deeper goal is turning Georgia from its Euroatlantic orientation back into the Russian fold\", he said. Its aim was also to \"provoke the Georgian leadership into a rash reaction that separates Georgia further from the west\".In the cable Tefft reviewed a long list of suspected Russian actions aimed at destabilising Georgia. These included a missile attack in Kodori \u2013 an area of Abkhazia then controlled by Georgia \u2013 the blowing up of a Georgian police car, and a suspected plot to kill an opposition figure.Tefft said there was incontrovertible evidence that Moscow was giving \"direct, if at times thinly veiled, support\" to Georgia's two separatist regions against the wishes of the Georgian government. This support was also military: \"The South Ossetians have reportedly received arms and equipment from Russia, including Grad missiles, on various occasions, including during recent tensions.\"The ambassador's leaked cables are likely to reopen the acrimonious and still inconclusive debate over who was to blame for starting the 2008 war. Russia insists Saakashvili triggered the conflict by sending tanks in to recapture South Ossetia, prompting Russia to launch its own counteroperation to protect the lives of Russian citizens.Saakashvili, however, insists he was forced to act after intolerable Russian provocation. He has blamed Moscow for deliberately frustrating his attempts to reach a deal with South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and has said the Russians financed, armed, guided and nurtured the two separatist movements.The cables broadly support Saakashvili's view. In his dispatches to Washington the ambassador reported that Russia's FSB spy agency directly controlled South Ossetia, with Russian FSB agents sitting in the government of rebel president Eduard Kokoity. \"In South Ossetia, many de facto cabinet ministers and advisers to Kokoity are Russian officials \u2013 in most cases believed to be FSB,\" Tefft wrote, noting that the FSB agents were rotated in and out of Russia.Russia even paid the salaries of police and other civil servants in South Ossetia \u2013 and increased their wages to stop them from defecting to a Georgian-backed rival administration. It also handed out Russian passports to 95% per cent of the enclave's residents, Tefft said, \u2013 creating instant citizens whom Russia would \"defend\" the following year.Tefft acknowledged that Abkhazia's de facto government had a \"somewhat greater degree of independence from Moscow\" than its South Ossetian counterpart. But he said it was evident the Russians still had \"great leverage\" over Abkhazia's Soviet-mentality president, Sergei Bagapsh, who frequently travelled to Moscow for consultations.When Bagapsh fell ill in April 2007, he was flown to Moscow for emergency treatment on an FSB plane, Tefft said, citing information from the Georgians. Tefft went on: \"Several sources have also told us that a senior FSB officer actually lives in a separate residence on Bagapsh's presidential compound.\"The cables make clear that in the months leading up to the war the Bush administration urged Saakashvili to shrug off Russia's goading and act with restraint. In a meeting in Paris on 13 June 2007, William Burns, then the US ambassador to Moscow, advised Saakashvili to \"avoid antagonising them [the Russians]\".Burns expressed sympathy with the predicament of Saakashvili, who told the Americans he believed Putin was \"personally committed to removing Abkhazia from Georgia\" \u2013 a prophecy that turned out to be correct. He said Russia couldn't be trusted, and called for a Nato membership action plan for Georgia as a \"'deterrent' against Russian adventurism\".The cables also chronicle Russia's anger and growing frustration with Georgia. In November 2006 Russia's deputy foreign minister, Grigoriy Karasin, complained to Matt Bryza, the US deputy assistant secretary of state, after Tbilisi arrested four Russian officers on espionage charges. \"Our patience is at an end,\" Karasin said.According to a cable written by Burns, Bryza said the US had warned Saakashvili not to engage in any military action. \"He (Byrza) has been clear with Saakashvili: if Georgia uses force or stumbles into a conflict, Saakashvili will find himself alone, blamed by the international community for recklessness.\" When the war began most western governments, including the UK, blamed the Kremlin \u2013 seeing Russia's military operation not as a peacekeeping mission but an old-style invasion. To the chagrin of Washington, Moscow swiftly recognised South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent, arguing that the Americans had done the same thing with Kosovo.The cables reveal that Russia's actions prompted much diplomatic soul-searching. On 28 August 2008 \u2013 soon after the French president, Nicholas Sarkozy, brokered an EU peace deal \u2013 the Foreign Office's defence and intelligence officials pondered the war's implications. Mariot Leslie \u2013 now the UK's ambassador to Nato \u2013 dubbed it a \"strategic tectonic shift in international relations\", the US embassy in London recorded.Asked whether Russia's decision to go into Georgia was part of an overall change of strategy, Leslie replied with exquisite equivocation. She said she was \"still assessing if it was a strategic decision or a tactical decision with strategic consequences\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Arms trade", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US national security", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables claim Russia armed Georgian separatists"},{"date": "2010-11-05T16:28:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia and Russia were today heading towards a new crisis after Tbilisi announced it had dismantled a Moscow-run spy ring, arresting four Russians and nine Georgians.The Russian government rejected the charges, denouncing them as a \"provocation\" timed to disrupt the Russian-Nato summit in Portugal later this month.The crisis comes little more than two years after the countries went to war, with bilateral relations still extremely tense.The interior ministry in Tbilisi said the 13 people arrested were part of a conspiracy inside the Georgian air force and were passing secrets to the Russian GRU military intelligence. In a statement issued today, the ministry said the detainees included six Georgian military pilots accused of passing on secret information about air force operations.Georgian officials alleged that they were recruited by the GRU a decade ago, at the time they were stationed next to a Russian military base in Batumi, on the Black Sea coast.A radio specialist in the Georgian navy was also arrested on charges of giving \"secret information to the GRU on military communications and radio call signs\".Bakur Kiguradze, a prominent businessman, is one of the Georgian civilians detained. He has been charged with giving the GRU secrets \"on military cooperation between Georgia and other countries\".Officials said three of the Russian detainees are civilians, including the director and deputy director of Saybolt Georgia, a subsidiary of a Texas-owned oil services company. The fourth is alleged to be their GRU handler.Government officials said the spy ring involved \"dozens\" of others who have not so far been detained. They said the ring was broken by a Georgian double agent who \"gained the trust of Russian military intelligence and started working for this agency as a liaison officer\".The statement added: \"In order to carry out espionage activities, Russians gave him special computer hardware and software for encrypting the exchanged information.\"The mole then passed on the equipment to Georgian counter-intelligence, allowing them to break GRU codes, it said.Russia's foreign ministry dismissed the account as fantasy, saying the Georgian government \"suffers from chronic spy mania and an anti-Russian bias\".But another foreign ministry source told Interfax: \"We are deeply outraged over the detention of Russian citizens in Georgia. We are investigating the situation at the moment.\"Obviously, it was done ahead of the Russia-Nato summit in Lisbon and the OSCE summit in Astana in order to draw as much attention as possible [to Georgia] and to harm Russia.\"A source in the Russian security services added: \"This is the latest invention of Georgia's leadership designed to aggravate the already difficult relations between our countries. Anti-Russian hysteria is gathering tempo in Georgia, and this 'spy scandal' is Tbilisi's latest provocation.\"The last major spy crisis between the countries erupted after Georgia arrested four Russian military officers in 2006. Moscow recalled its ambassador, evacuated its embassy staff, and cut off air, road and sea links to the former Soviet republic.Shota Utiashvili, the head of analysis at the Georgian interior ministry, insisted the arrests were the result of a careful investigation. \"We think it is one of the most serious spy rings we have caught in the country,\" he said. Thirteen people have been detained over the past year, and there are dozens of others we know that have been connected to the ring,\" Utiashvili told the Guardian.\"We know they have been transferring very sensitive information, including military information, to the GRU \u2013 unfortunately some of it during the war.\"Georgian officials said messages were exchanged via picture and music files, sent as emails, which could only be decoded using other picture or music files.According to the Georgian account, the pilots were apparently not well paid for their espionage, and in some cases compensation amounted to little more than a guaranteed military pension.In return, they allegedly signed secret 25-year contracts with the GRU as far back as 2000.At that time, the political landscape in the Caucasus looked very different. There was a powerful Russian military presence in Batumi, where the two countries controlled neighbouring bases, and the surrounding Adzharia region was run by a secessionist warlord, Aslan Abashidze. Abashidze was ousted in 2004, and Adzharia was put back under Tbilisi's rule.Since a week-long war in August 2008 over control of the pro-Russian South Ossetia enclave, Russian forces have withdrawn from most of Georgia, but Moscow retains control of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Relations between Tbilisi and Moscow have wavered between tense and hostile since the 2003 rose revolution in Georgia brought down Eduard Shevardnadze, a former Soviet foreign minister, and brought to power a young, nationalist, government under the current president, Mikheil Saakashvilli.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Espionage"], "title": "Georgia and Russia collide over 'spy ring'"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-02T13:38:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Friday, 30 October 2009, 11:53C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 MOSCOW 002688 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 10/26/2019 TAGS PGOV, PHUM, KDEM, RS SUBJECT: IS STALIN'S GHOST A THREAT TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM? REF: A) MOSCOW 2586 B) MOSCOW 1349Classified By: Pol Min Counselor Susan Elliott for reason 1.4 (d)1. (C) Summary: Efforts to sanitize Stalin's role in Soviet history may be potentially damaging to academic freedom and linked to GOR efforts to increase authoritarian rule. Although some recent incidents have caused concern among human rights monitors, thus far GOR efforts to enlist academics to help oppose \"falsification of history\" have not been strongly enforced. GOR rhetoric on the subject appears largely aimed at scoring political points in arguments with foreign countries. End Summary.Stalin's ghost haunts the Metro-------------------------------2. (SBU) The specter of Joseph Stalin continues to haunt post-Soviet Russia, as the GOR and average Russians alike struggle to reconcile their pride in past Soviet glories with the harsh fact that the Soviet system, especially under Stalin, destroyed the lives of millions of its citizens. This uneasy and ambivalent relationship with the past is further complicated by a GOR policy of occasionally exploiting nationalistic emotions about Soviet history -- especially the Soviet victory over the Nazis -- to buttress support for its own, modern brand of authoritarianism (ref A). The latest dispute flared up after Moscow City Hall announced on October 27 that it would add Lenin's name to artwork in the Kurskaya Metro station which, since August, has carried a restored verse from the 1944 version of the Soviet anthem praising Stalin. Moscow's chief architect, Aleksandr Kuzmin, told local media that he wanted to \"return Kurskaya to its original appearance,\" which would include a monument to Stalin. An article in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, a paper not always known for liberal opposition, noted wryly that if the goal was to return things to their original appearance, it might be necessary to blanket the entire city with Stalin's image, as authorities had done during the height of Stalin's totalitarian reign of terror. Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov told Interfax October 28 that the city had no intention of placing a Stalin statue in the Metro, and the Moscow Patriarchate criticized the idea of \"Stalinist symbols\" in the Metro, calling it \"divisive.\"Academic freedom under threat?------------------------------3. (C) GOR efforts to sanitize Soviet history have continued throughout the year, and have the potential to reach into numerous walks of life and hence to encroach upon academic freedom. In May, the Kremlin announced that it had formed a \"Commission to Oppose Historical Falsification,\" and its state Duma supporters introduced legislation to defend Russia's honor in any discussion of World War II and the subsequent creation of the Soviet Union (ref B). Less than a month later, in June, XXXXXXXXXXXX leaked to us an email allegedly from V.A. Tishkov, the Chief of the History Section of RAN, politely \"requesting\" all faculty to present him with information in connection with the GOR's May announcement. The information requested included a list of sources of possible \"falsification\" in their field of study, and information about activity among their students promoting the spread of \"falsification\" or of \"concepts damaging to Russia's interests.\" More recently, on October 14, the Moscow Times reported that the German government had written a letter to President Medvedev complaining about an investigation into an Arkhangelsk historian, Mikhail Suprun, for \"violating privacy rights\" by researching deportations of Soviet Germans under Stalin. The police official who gave Suprun access to the archives is also accused of \"abuse of office,\" while Suprun could receive up to four years in prison, and has had what he called \"a lifetime's work\" on computers and research data confiscated by the Federal Security Service (FSB).4. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that she personally knew professors at academic institutions in Moscow who had received such memos during the summer, including memos asking them to \"identify falsifiers.\" She added that the Foreign Intelligence Service also has a presence at RAN. Discussing this potentially disturbing trend, XXXXXXXXXXXX also alluded to the \"unpleasant rewrites\" found in officially sanctioned textbooks which whitewash Stalin's role in the country's history. While acknowledging the existence of \"a broad variety\" of history books (approximately 24 schoolbooks on history are available in bookstores), XXXXXXXXXXXX noted that the official version outnumbers the others by 250,000 books to approximately 10-15,000. Furthermore, in Russia as in the U.S., parents do not buy their children's history books, but rather the schools order them, which XXXXXXXXXXXX said makes theMOSCOW 00002688 002 OF 003choice \"pre-determined.\" On October 24, the liberal Daily Journal reported the release of the latest in a long line of history textbooks rehabilitating Stalin; this one, ironically produced by the \"Enlightenment\" publishing company, denies the existence of totalitarianism in the USSR. The article noted that every time someone brings up the topic of history, it engendered a furious on-line debate.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that a \"virtual war\" has flared up between pro-Kremlin and anti-Kremlin bloggers every time someone published papers on the Internet that they received from state archives 15 years ago detailing Soviet human rights abuses. The papers date back 15 years, XXXXXXXXXXXX explained, because now, \"as in Soviet times,\" people need to complete special applications to receive permission to read such documents. A brief window opened after the fall of the Soviet Union, and just as quickly closed again.The past is not dead; it is not even past-----------------------------------------7. (C) For XXXXXXXXXXXX, such debates tell as much about the present as they do about the past. He believes that the GOR is \"trying to create a newly obedient society,\" which \"as in Orwell,\" only knows history from a standpoint beneficial to the authorities. According to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"when the power structure talks about falsification, they are simply attempting to hide part of history.\" He added that knowledge of the real history carries significant power. He was struck by the \"shock\" of people who learned historical facts, because \"sometimes just one fact can overturn a person's whole world view.\" For example, XXXXXXXXXXXX daughter, who studied in the USSR and teaches history in high school, upon learning that XXXXXXXXXXXX grandfather had been killed in the 1937 purges, talked of little else for several years afterward. According to XXXXXXXXXXX, \"the Kremlin fears people learning about past atrocities and crimes,\" and hence \"tries to manipulate people's consciousness.\" XXXXXXXXXXX added that he understands the GOR's policy, because \"if people knew the extent of Soviet crimes,\" the Kremlin would not be able to control the populace. XXXXXXXXXXXX expressed a similar view, saying that the GOR prefers to present itself as \"infallible, making only correct decisions,\" and that discussions about Stalin's misdeeds might lead to unwanted questions for today's government.8. (C) XXXXXXXXXXX said he suspected that at least some of the pro-Kremlin bloggers who participate in these historical debates were professionals in the pay of the GOR (and perhaps special services). This notion may not be so far-fetched. On October 21, Interfax reported that a supposedly private citizen named Mikhail Baranov had launched an Internet portal called \"Runivers\" to fight \"falsification of history\" by creating a historical and cultural electronic encyclopedia and library. The article describes Baranov's organization as \"non-commercial,\" and does not indicate from where -- during these economically tight times -- it receives its funding. However, a State Duma deputy who is a member of the Runivers board, Vladimir Medinskiy, lamented to Interfax that \"Russia does not have an institution that would be dealing in historical propaganda, which is why we are losing in the war aimed to falsify Russian history.\"A \"wink\" is the easiest response to GOR directives--------------------------------------------- -----9. (C) The fact that Russia currently lacks such a \"historical propaganda\" institution has thus far prevented any widespread attacks on academic freedom in the name of \"anti-falsification.\" XXXXXXXXXXXX, told us October 27 that he had heard no reports from any of his MGU colleagues of any pressure on them to present teaching materials or name names in order to ferret out \"falsification.\" He attributed this at least in part to the fact that, in contrast to neighboring Belarus, Russia has no Ideological Department which examines all teaching materials in schools and universities. XXXXXXXXXXXX also cautioned against leaping to Orwellian conclusions, reminding us not to \"underestimate the cynicism\" involved in administrative requests like the one at RAN. \"Everyone knows how to take such requests,\" she said; the request from the government is \"ugly,\" but unlike in Soviet times, when professors all depended upon the government for their currently there is no way to enforce such decrees. As a result, according to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"people wink\"; the administrators, while passing along the government's request, make it clear to their subordinates that they themselves do not support it. XXXXXXXXXXXX pointed out that many historians may be outraged at the government's heavy-handedness and its \"real falsification of history,\" but they don't see themselves as a unified force.MOSCOW 00002688 003 OF 003The simplest response is to use the power of inertia, and to stonewall passively.Goal of GOR rhetoric: score political points at home--------------------------------------------- -------10. (C) For the GOR's part, it held a session of its Commission during the summer, and its director claimed that participants were \"not here to censor, but simply to oppose\" perceived attempts by other countries to gain at Russia's expense on the geopolitical scene. Although the stated focus is on international disputes, the GOR's primary audience for its hardline stance is domestic. Rhetoric defending Russia's honor on the international stage scores easy political points for the GOR at home. (Note: This occasionally results in some fancy footwork, as when Putin visited Poland on the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and wrote a conciliatory article for his Polish audience, which -- according to Lipman, by GOR design -- received scant coverage in Russian media. End Note.) As XXXXXXXXXXXX said, \"there is a lot of vagueness about the past, but World War II is the one thing everyone in Russia accepts, both liberal and conservative; the narrative is that Germany attacked, and we won.\" That Stalin continues to have a following, 56 years after his death, is undeniable. After Aleksandr Prokhanov, editor-in-chief of the ultranationalist paper Zavtra, praised Stalin on the \"Honest Monday\" political talk show on Gazprom-owned NTV, television audience members were invited to phone in their opinions. Of those who participated, 61 percent called Stalin a hero, 32 percent an enemy, and 7 percent \"a great, effective manager.\"Comment-------11. (C) Recent reports of the death of academic freedom in Russia are greatly exaggerated. GOR leaders have shown that they are willing to adopt nationalistic postures when it buttresses their popular support, but attempts to dictate academic terms thus far appear half-hearted. The GOR is no doubt telling the truth when it claims to place greater focus on external quarrels about its past than on domestic debates. It is undeniable that nationalists continue to link Russia's past greatness with its past political system, which showed disdain for the value of individual human life and for freedom of expression, and that this approach places these fundamental freedoms under threat. However, there remain enough Russians both in and out of the government who question the nationalists' logic and strive to keep the memory of Stalin's victims alive. In the meantime, the GOR occasionally remembers to name a street after Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn just to make sure that nobody confuses them with the Soviets. When discussing this issue, Russians frequently refer to the poet Anna Akhmatova, who, when Khrushchev opened the doors to Stalin's prisons, wrote that the half of Russia who had imprisoned the other half would now come face to face with its victims. Since according to a recent Levada poll, 27 percent of current Russians have relatives who perished under Stalin's rule, that \"other half\" is not going away any time soon. Beyrle", "tags": ["Joseph Stalin", "Russia", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Stalin's spectre haunts Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a \"virtual mafia state\", according to leaked secret diplomatic cables that provide a damning American assessment of its erstwhile rival superpower.Arms trafficking, money laundering, personal enrichment, protection for gangsters, extortion and kickbacks, suitcases full of money and secret offshore bank accounts in Cyprus: the cables paint a bleak picture of a political system in which bribery alone totals an estimated $300bn a year, and in which it is often hard to distinguish between the activities of the government and organised crime.Among the most striking allegations contained in the cables, which were leaked to the whistleblowers' website WikiLeaks, are:\u2022 Russian spies use senior mafia bosses to carry out criminal operations such as arms trafficking.\u2022 Law enforcement agencies such as the police, spy agencies and the prosecutor's office operate a de facto protection racket for criminal networks.\u2022 Rampant bribery acts like a parallel tax system for the personal enrichment of police, officials and the KGB's successor, the federal security service (FSB).\u2022 Investigators looking into Russian mafia links to Spain have compiled a list of Russian prosecutors, military officers and politicians who have dealings with organised crime networks.\u2022 Putin is accused of amassing \"illicit proceeds\" from his time in office, which various sources allege are hidden overseas.The allegations come hours before Putin was due to address Fifa's executive committee in Zurich in support of Russia's bid to host the 2018 World Cup. Putin last night abruptly cancelled his trip, complaining of a smear campaign to \"discredit\" Fifa members. In an angry interview with CNN's Larry King Live, recorded before the latest disclosures, Putin also denounced the cables and warned the US not to stick its nose in Russia's affairs.He made clear he was not amused by a US diplomat's description of him as \"Batman\" and President Dmitry Medvedev as \"Robin\". \"To be honest with you, we did not suspect that this [criticism] could be made with such arrogance, with such rudeness, and you know, so unethically,\" Putin remarked.The principal allegations stem from a Spanish prosecutor, Jos\u00e9 Grinda Gonz\u00e1lez, who has spent more than a decade trying to unravel the activities of Russian organised crime in Spain. Spanish authorities have arrested more than 60 suspects, including the top four mafia bosses outside Russia.In a startling briefing for US officials in January, Grinda said Russia was a \"virtual mafia state\" in which \"one cannot differentiate between the activities of the government and OC [organised crime] groups\".Grinda said he had evidence \u2013 thousands of wiretaps have been used in the last 10 years \u2013 that certain political parties in Russia worked hand in hand with mafia groups. He alleged that intelligence officials orchestrated gun shipments to Kurdish groups to destabilise Turkey and were pulling the strings behind the 2009 case of the Arctic Sea cargo ship suspected of carrying missiles destined for Iran.At the summit of what is known in Russia as the power \"vertical\" lies the Kremlin, a prime beneficiary of the entrenched system of kickbacks, bribes, protection money and suspect contracts.In a detailed and apparently plausible analysis of how corruption in the capital works, the US ambassador John Beyrle cited one source as saying: \"Everything depends on the Kremlin \u2026 [former Moscow mayor Yuri] Luzhkov, as well as many mayors and governors, pay off key insiders in the Kremlin.\"Beneath the Kremlin is a broad layer of top officials \u2013 mayors and governors \u2013 collecting money based on bribes almost like their own personal taxation system. At the next level down the FSB, interior ministry and police collect protection money from businesses, licit and illicit.\"Criminal elements enjoy a krysha [a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning roof or protection] that runs through the police, the federal security service, ministry of internal affairs (MVD) and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy,\" Beyrle noted. \"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government.\"Grinda said the FSB had two ways to eliminate \"OC leaders who do not do what the security services want them to do\". The first was to kill them. The second was to put them in jail to \"eliminate them as a competitor for influence\".Sometimes the FSB put crime lords in prison for their own protection. Luckier crime leaders might end up in parliament. \"The government of Russia takes the relationship with organised crime leaders still further by granting them privileges of politics, in order to grant them immunity from racketeering charges,\" Beyrle noted.The US is not alone in its assessments. In one cable, the Foreign Office's Russia director, Michael Davenport, is quoted as calling Russia a \"corrupt autocracy\".The cables also reveal that the Americans believe Putin was likely to have known about the operation to murder Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006.The Kremlin has denied involvement but a remark by another US ambassador in Moscow, Williams Burns, sums up US attitudestowards the new Russia: \"Whatever the truth may ultimately be [about Litvinenko] \u2013 and it may never be known \u2013 the tendency here to almost automatically assume that someone in or close to Putin's inner-circle is the author of these deaths speaks volumes about expectations of Kremlin behaviour.\"Russia's foreign intelligence chief said yesterday that he would order his spies to study the cables relating to Russia. Mikhail Fradkov, the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service (SVR), told the ITAR-TASS news agency: \"There are many issues which have been revealed by the disclosure by WikiLeaks \u2013 this is material for analysis. We shall report our conclusions to the leadership of the country.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 2 December 2010. The original gave an incomplete name for a Spanish prosecutor, referring to him as Jos\u00e9 Gonz\u00e1lez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Spain", "Mafia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables condemn Russia as 'mafia state'"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia provided Grad missiles and other arms to separatists in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and carried out a wave of \"covert actions\" to undermine Georgia in the runup to the 2008 Russian-Georgian war, US diplomatic cables say.The Kremlin's hostile measures against Georgia included missile attacks, murder plots and \"a host of smaller-scale actions\", the leaked cables said. Russian secret services also ran a disinformation campaign against Georgia's pro-American, pro-Nato president, Mikheil Saakashvili, claiming he suffered from \"paranoid dysfunction\".\"The cumulative weight of the evidence of the last few years suggests that the Russians are aggressively playing a high-stakes covert game, and they consider few if any holds barred,\" the US ambassador in Tbilisi, John Tefft, wrote on 20 August 2007 in a classified cable.One Kremlin aim was to remove Saakashvili, Tefft wrote. But the \"variety and extent of the active measures suggests the deeper goal is turning Georgia from its Euroatlantic orientation back into the Russian fold\", he said. Its aim was also to \"provoke the Georgian leadership into a rash reaction that separates Georgia further from the west\".In the cable Tefft reviewed a long list of suspected Russian actions aimed at destabilising Georgia. These included a missile attack in Kodori \u2013 an area of Abkhazia then controlled by Georgia \u2013 the blowing up of a Georgian police car, and a suspected plot to kill an opposition figure.Tefft said there was incontrovertible evidence that Moscow was giving \"direct, if at times thinly veiled, support\" to Georgia's two separatist regions against the wishes of the Georgian government. This support was also military: \"The South Ossetians have reportedly received arms and equipment from Russia, including Grad missiles, on various occasions, including during recent tensions.\"The ambassador's leaked cables are likely to reopen the acrimonious and still inconclusive debate over who was to blame for starting the 2008 war. Russia insists Saakashvili triggered the conflict by sending tanks in to recapture South Ossetia, prompting Russia to launch its own counteroperation to protect the lives of Russian citizens.Saakashvili, however, insists he was forced to act after intolerable Russian provocation. He has blamed Moscow for deliberately frustrating his attempts to reach a deal with South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and has said the Russians financed, armed, guided and nurtured the two separatist movements.The cables broadly support Saakashvili's view. In his dispatches to Washington the ambassador reported that Russia's FSB spy agency directly controlled South Ossetia, with Russian FSB agents sitting in the government of rebel president Eduard Kokoity. \"In South Ossetia, many de facto cabinet ministers and advisers to Kokoity are Russian officials \u2013 in most cases believed to be FSB,\" Tefft wrote, noting that the FSB agents were rotated in and out of Russia.Russia even paid the salaries of police and other civil servants in South Ossetia \u2013 and increased their wages to stop them from defecting to a Georgian-backed rival administration. It also handed out Russian passports to 95% per cent of the enclave's residents, Tefft said, \u2013 creating instant citizens whom Russia would \"defend\" the following year.Tefft acknowledged that Abkhazia's de facto government had a \"somewhat greater degree of independence from Moscow\" than its South Ossetian counterpart. But he said it was evident the Russians still had \"great leverage\" over Abkhazia's Soviet-mentality president, Sergei Bagapsh, who frequently travelled to Moscow for consultations.When Bagapsh fell ill in April 2007, he was flown to Moscow for emergency treatment on an FSB plane, Tefft said, citing information from the Georgians. Tefft went on: \"Several sources have also told us that a senior FSB officer actually lives in a separate residence on Bagapsh's presidential compound.\"The cables make clear that in the months leading up to the war the Bush administration urged Saakashvili to shrug off Russia's goading and act with restraint. In a meeting in Paris on 13 June 2007, William Burns, then the US ambassador to Moscow, advised Saakashvili to \"avoid antagonising them [the Russians]\".Burns expressed sympathy with the predicament of Saakashvili, who told the Americans he believed Putin was \"personally committed to removing Abkhazia from Georgia\" \u2013 a prophecy that turned out to be correct. He said Russia couldn't be trusted, and called for a Nato membership action plan for Georgia as a \"'deterrent' against Russian adventurism\".The cables also chronicle Russia's anger and growing frustration with Georgia. In November 2006 Russia's deputy foreign minister, Grigoriy Karasin, complained to Matt Bryza, the US deputy assistant secretary of state, after Tbilisi arrested four Russian officers on espionage charges. \"Our patience is at an end,\" Karasin said.According to a cable written by Burns, Bryza said the US had warned Saakashvili not to engage in any military action. \"He (Byrza) has been clear with Saakashvili: if Georgia uses force or stumbles into a conflict, Saakashvili will find himself alone, blamed by the international community for recklessness.\" When the war began most western governments, including the UK, blamed the Kremlin \u2013 seeing Russia's military operation not as a peacekeeping mission but an old-style invasion. To the chagrin of Washington, Moscow swiftly recognised South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent, arguing that the Americans had done the same thing with Kosovo.The cables reveal that Russia's actions prompted much diplomatic soul-searching. On 28 August 2008 \u2013 soon after the French president, Nicholas Sarkozy, brokered an EU peace deal \u2013 the Foreign Office's defence and intelligence officials pondered the war's implications. Mariot Leslie \u2013 now the UK's ambassador to Nato \u2013 dubbed it a \"strategic tectonic shift in international relations\", the US embassy in London recorded.Asked whether Russia's decision to go into Georgia was part of an overall change of strategy, Leslie replied with exquisite equivocation. She said she was \"still assessing if it was a strategic decision or a tactical decision with strategic consequences\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Arms trade", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US national security", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables claim Russia armed Georgian separatists"},{"date": "2010-11-05T16:28:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia and Russia were today heading towards a new crisis after Tbilisi announced it had dismantled a Moscow-run spy ring, arresting four Russians and nine Georgians.The Russian government rejected the charges, denouncing them as a \"provocation\" timed to disrupt the Russian-Nato summit in Portugal later this month.The crisis comes little more than two years after the countries went to war, with bilateral relations still extremely tense.The interior ministry in Tbilisi said the 13 people arrested were part of a conspiracy inside the Georgian air force and were passing secrets to the Russian GRU military intelligence. In a statement issued today, the ministry said the detainees included six Georgian military pilots accused of passing on secret information about air force operations.Georgian officials alleged that they were recruited by the GRU a decade ago, at the time they were stationed next to a Russian military base in Batumi, on the Black Sea coast.A radio specialist in the Georgian navy was also arrested on charges of giving \"secret information to the GRU on military communications and radio call signs\".Bakur Kiguradze, a prominent businessman, is one of the Georgian civilians detained. He has been charged with giving the GRU secrets \"on military cooperation between Georgia and other countries\".Officials said three of the Russian detainees are civilians, including the director and deputy director of Saybolt Georgia, a subsidiary of a Texas-owned oil services company. The fourth is alleged to be their GRU handler.Government officials said the spy ring involved \"dozens\" of others who have not so far been detained. They said the ring was broken by a Georgian double agent who \"gained the trust of Russian military intelligence and started working for this agency as a liaison officer\".The statement added: \"In order to carry out espionage activities, Russians gave him special computer hardware and software for encrypting the exchanged information.\"The mole then passed on the equipment to Georgian counter-intelligence, allowing them to break GRU codes, it said.Russia's foreign ministry dismissed the account as fantasy, saying the Georgian government \"suffers from chronic spy mania and an anti-Russian bias\".But another foreign ministry source told Interfax: \"We are deeply outraged over the detention of Russian citizens in Georgia. We are investigating the situation at the moment.\"Obviously, it was done ahead of the Russia-Nato summit in Lisbon and the OSCE summit in Astana in order to draw as much attention as possible [to Georgia] and to harm Russia.\"A source in the Russian security services added: \"This is the latest invention of Georgia's leadership designed to aggravate the already difficult relations between our countries. Anti-Russian hysteria is gathering tempo in Georgia, and this 'spy scandal' is Tbilisi's latest provocation.\"The last major spy crisis between the countries erupted after Georgia arrested four Russian military officers in 2006. Moscow recalled its ambassador, evacuated its embassy staff, and cut off air, road and sea links to the former Soviet republic.Shota Utiashvili, the head of analysis at the Georgian interior ministry, insisted the arrests were the result of a careful investigation. \"We think it is one of the most serious spy rings we have caught in the country,\" he said. Thirteen people have been detained over the past year, and there are dozens of others we know that have been connected to the ring,\" Utiashvili told the Guardian.\"We know they have been transferring very sensitive information, including military information, to the GRU \u2013 unfortunately some of it during the war.\"Georgian officials said messages were exchanged via picture and music files, sent as emails, which could only be decoded using other picture or music files.According to the Georgian account, the pilots were apparently not well paid for their espionage, and in some cases compensation amounted to little more than a guaranteed military pension.In return, they allegedly signed secret 25-year contracts with the GRU as far back as 2000.At that time, the political landscape in the Caucasus looked very different. There was a powerful Russian military presence in Batumi, where the two countries controlled neighbouring bases, and the surrounding Adzharia region was run by a secessionist warlord, Aslan Abashidze. Abashidze was ousted in 2004, and Adzharia was put back under Tbilisi's rule.Since a week-long war in August 2008 over control of the pro-Russian South Ossetia enclave, Russian forces have withdrawn from most of Georgia, but Moscow retains control of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Relations between Tbilisi and Moscow have wavered between tense and hostile since the 2003 rose revolution in Georgia brought down Eduard Shevardnadze, a former Soviet foreign minister, and brought to power a young, nationalist, government under the current president, Mikheil Saakashvilli.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Espionage"], "title": "Georgia and Russia collide over 'spy ring'"},{"date": "2010-12-28T21:13:50Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of the oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning European countries and the US to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement yesterday saying Khodorkovsky's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations\".But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgments about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation. We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\" Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty of theft and money laundering by a Moscow court yesterday.Critics say the trial constitutes revenge for the tycoon's questioning of a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.The two men's fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until the trial judge, Viktor Danilkin, finishes reading his 250-page verdict, which could take several days.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany, and Catherine Ashton, the EU foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law\".The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable\".The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally-received income\", he said. \"In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev, on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities\".Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003.They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Vadim Klyuvgant, Khodorkovksy's lead lawyer, dismissed the Russian foreign ministry's reaction to criticism as a \"mix of glaring incompetence and outright lies\".He pointed out that the ministry referred to Khodorkovksy and Lebedev's prosecution being related to tax evasion, which was in fact a charge in their first trial, which concluded in 2005.He also disputed the claim that the trial came under the exclusive jurisdiction of Russian authorities. \"The Russian Federation - and knowledge of this is one of the direct duties of the foreign ministry - has accepted the jurisdiction of the European convention on human rights, under which defence of human rights is not an internal matter of any state but one of the values that stand above national legislation,\" he told the Interfax news agency.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside.Danilkin resumed reading his verdict this morning, as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, said earlier this month: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate\".", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia lashes out at western critics of Khodorkovsky trial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T00:05:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The day on which the words \"Putin\" and \"mafia state\" reached tens of millions of readers on the internet, Rossiya, Russia's state-controlled television channel, reported the following in its mid-morning broadcast: the Moscow river was freezing over, two Russian tourists had been attacked by sharks in Egypt, and US truck drivers had got drunk while transporting nuclear weapons. Rossiya did carry Larry King's interview with the Russian prime minister, and report Mr Putin's riposte to Robert Gates's remark that the Russian government was run by the security services \u2013 being a former CIA man, Mr Gates should know. But on the substance of the US embassy cables themselves, nothing. Russia's supine television channels, from which 70% of the country get their news, were silent.This does not mean there will be no reply, but it will probably be something along the lines of WikiLeaks being manipulated by the Pentagon to defame and weaken Russia. The US embassy cables, if anything, understate the extent to which the Russian government amounts to a giant protection racket. The closer you are to the seat of power, the more money you can extort and the more immunity you enjoy. But this system was not Mr Putin's alone. He industrialised a process that Boris Yeltsin started. The difference is that in Mr Yeltsin's case the US embassy in Moscow did their level best to aid and abet. For a variety of reasons: they regarded Mr Yeltsin as their man; he was still, usefully from their point of view, demolishing Soviet structures; that demolition was done in the name of privatisation, and the grand theft of the state's resources was conducted by people who called themselves democrats. But when it is done in the name of a nationalist autocracy rather than a young pro-western democracy, US diplomats express outrage. Their words would carry more weight if they had piped up a decade earlier.The problem of describing a government in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together in a virtual mafia state \u2013 one, moreover, that has just won the World Cup \u2013 is how you deal with it. Do you ignore its views and tear up the treaties, as Bill Clinton and George W Bush did? Do you place missile defence batteries on its borders? Do you suck up to it, as Silvio Berlusconi is suspected to have done for personal profit? Or do you engage with it in the knowledge that you do not have the luxury of choosing your partners? The picture of Russia presented by US diplomats does not undermine the policy of pressing the reset button on US-Russian relations. It reinforces the need for it. Most cases being heard by the European court of human rights are Russian. So much so that a better name for the Strasbourg court would be the Russian court of human rights. But that is the last reason for suspending Russia from the Council of Europe.The US embassy cables will not deal a terminal blow to the 16 working groups established under the commission that Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev set up to improve their relationship. But failing to ratify the Start treaty in the lame-duck session of Congress could. So, too, could ignoring the warning contained in Mr Medvedev's recent state of the nation speech and Mr Putin's CNN interview \u2013 that if the US went ahead with a missile defence programme which excluded Russia, Russia would respond by moving short-range tactical nuclear warheads closer up. If there is a lively debate in Russia about how to modernise it, those voices campaigning for accountability and transparency are still all too easily silenced by the perception of an external threat. It could still take a generation before Russia is run by an accountable government. The duty of its neighbours is not to exacerbate the process, as they did in the 1990s. To do anything else would be to make ordinary Russians hostage to the system that preys on them.", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe"], "title": "US and Russia: Cosa Putina | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-03T12:59:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "So football isn't coming home after all in 2018 \u2013 it's packing its suitcase for a trip to Russia instead. Gutting, if you're English, but \"kruto\" \u2013 \"wicked\" \u2013 if you hail from the land of Fyodor Dostoyevsky and Andrei Arshavin. The Russians love a big event \u2013 especially as they don't get many \u2013 and while the country still has a lot to do to prepare for the tournament, organising a World Cup is unlikely to prove beyond them \u2013 these are, after all, the people that put the first man into space. The country has already taken a massive step forward by announcing that visa requirements, which currently pretty much apply to anyone not from a former Soviet republic, will be scrapped for the duration of the tournament.Perhaps wisely, Russia has limited its World Cup venues to the west of the country, with Siberia and the Pacific coast missing out entirely. Divided into four clusters, the games will be centred around Moscow, St Petersburg, the Volga River, and the Black Sea resort of Sochi, with matches also due to take place in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg.For any beach lovers disappointed that Spain/Portugal didn't get the World Cup, pray your side gets drawn to play in Sochi. This Black Sea beach resort sees average temperatures of around 26C during the summer months. Sochi is also the host for the 2014 Winter Olympics and has already seen massive investment. The next city to make up the cluster is Krasnodar, the homeland of the Kuban Cossacks, the legendary horse-mounted fighters. Like Sochi, the city comes alive in the summer months, when its central pedestrian zone is filled with street cafes and buskers. The third city in what may well come to be known as the \"fun\" cluster is Rostov-on-Don, widely known as Russia's southern capital. The \"Don\" here is the Don river and many fans will be encouraged to take a cruise ship to Moscow, or vice-versa, an option well worth considering for fans who want to sit back and chill after the excitement of the tournament's opening stages. Perhaps with a glass or two of the region's cheap and cheerful wines. Football fans, alcohol and a boat? What a great idea!The cluster based around cities on the Volga river provides more scope for boat travel. This is an option the Russian authorities are seriously considering to move fans around by far the largest World Cup zone, which stretches from Volgograd in the south to Yaroslavl, some 150 miles north-east of Moscow. The stadium in Volgograd, formerly Stalingrad, boasts an impressive view of the awe-inspiring The Motherland Calls monument, a 27-metre statue of a defiant Soviet heroine. The monument is dedicated to the some half a million Red Army soldiers who died during the second world war battle to defend the city. It is also said to be in desperate need of repair work, with experts warning it could collapse any day. Keep an eye on the ball, but also on the dame on the hill. Kazan is the capital of Russia's Tatars, Muslim descendents of the Mongol Golden Horde. They've calmed down a bit these days though, and the city is now a multicultural success story, notable for its very own Kremlin. Check out the local specialty \u2013 Qabartma \u2013 a kind of doughy pancake spread with butter.The other cities in the cluster are Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, and Saransk. Of the three, Nizhny is by far the largest. A former home to military research facilities, it was only opened to foreigners in 1990. Samara and Saransk can best be described as typical Russian provincial cities \u2013 although that's not to say they don't both possess a certain charm. Still, they are as surprised to find themselves World Cup cities as anyone else. It goes without saying that the stadiums due to host games here have yet to be constructed. Moscow plus the nearby Soviet-era industrial town of Podolsk make up this cluster, which is almost certain to see the final and a semi-finals. The Russian capital already has experience of hosting a major footballing event, as the Manchester United and Chelsea fans who saw their teams do battle at Luzhniki Stadium for the 2007/2008 Champions League trophy will recall. Both sets of supporters are also sure to remember the striking Lenin statue that greeted them as they made their way to the turnstiles. A local ritual is to drop coins from the top of the escalators from the metro station to the stadium- a nice windfall for the cleaners, but not so great if you get a 10 kopeck piece in the eye.Aside from Luzhniki, games are set to take place in Moscow at the Spartak and Dynamo stadiums. The former currently only exists on paper, while the Dynamo arena, the onetime stomping ground of keeper Lev Yashin, is due for massive reconstruction. Architects have promised though to maintain the elements that made it the world's only constructivist-designed stadium when it was first opened in 1928. Keep an ear out for fans showing their disapproval of refereeing decisions by chanting \"Sudyu na milo!\"- an idiomatic phrase whose meaning translates as \"make soap out of the ref,\" and is a reference to the Soviet practice of producing hygiene products from the fat of slaughtered stray dogs.The traffic jams that plague the capital are unlikely to have improved by the time 2018 rolls around, but there is always the extremely efficient Moscow metro, whose chandeliers, marble columns and Soviet-era mosaics make it perhaps the world's most beautiful subway system. And cheap, too, at less than 50p a ride. Not that much else is in Moscow, where prices for basics are often at least twice of those in other parts of the country. Expect things in Podolsk, 15km south of Moscow and the likely venue for a couple of group games, to be considerably more reasonable. Home to third division side FC Vityaz, this 18th- century town boasts Soviet-era monuments and numerous onion dome churches amid all the vaguely depressing tower blocks. St Petersburg and the Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad make up the northern cluster, which should see a semi-final. The venue for the game, and a fair few matches prior to that, is likely to be Zenit St Petersburg's sparkling new ground, due to open for business in 2011. A warning: local fans prove their devotion to their side by bearing their chests in sub-zero conditions. Not likely to be an issue at the World Cup, but given the recent unpredictable weather, who knows? Known throughout Russia as the Venice of the north, St Petersburg's tsarist-era architecture and winding canals make it one of the world's most visually striking cities. Combined with its famed White Nights, when the sun barely sets from mid June to early July, fans supporting their team in Russia's former capital are in for a memorable time. Getting here from Moscow is simple \u2013 the express train makes the journey in around four hours. The slower, overnight train is more romantic though; sup tea and watch the Russian countryside go by as you travel to the big game.Russia plans to build another high-speed railway to Kaliningrad, separated from mainland Russia by Nato members Poland and Lithuania, in time for the tournament. Established by the Teutonic Knights in the 13th century, the city still retains a certain Germanic influence and is the birthplace of Vladimir Putin's wife, Lyudmila, and Baltika, Russia's top export beer.", "tags": ["Russia holidays", "Travel", "St Petersburg holidays", "Moscow holidays", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup"], "title": "Russia 2018: A beginner's guide"},{"date": "2010-12-28T12:30:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning the US and European countries to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement on Monday saying the oligarch's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution - and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations.\"But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgements about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation.\" He added: \"We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\"Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty by a Moscow court yesterday of theft and money laundering, in a trial that critics say is revenge for the tycoon questioning a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany. Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law.\"Viktor Danilkin, the trial judge, said the two men had been found guilty when he began reading his 250-page verdict yesterday. But their fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until he finishes the text, which could take several days.The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable.\"The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally received income. In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"Similar prosecutions were common, the spokesman claimed. \"Thousands of cases regarding the responsibilities of entrepreneurs before the law are considered in Russian courts,\" he said.The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities.\"Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003. They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district yesterday shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside. Danilkin resumed reading his verdict today as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial earlier this month, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, replied: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Hillary Clinton", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia hits out over Khodorkovsky verdict"},{"date": "2010-12-07T14:36:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry said today it was \"bewildered\" by revelations that the Nato military alliance had drawn up secret contingency plans for the defence of eastern Europe from Russian military aggression.Classified US diplomatic cables show that nine Nato divisions \u2013 US, British, German and Polish \u2013 have been identified for combat operations in the event of an attack on Poland or the three Baltic states.A source in Russia's foreign ministry said the information disclosed by WikiLeaks and detailed in the Guardian caused \"a lot of questions and bewilderment with us\".The Nato-Russia summit in Lisbon last month had adopted a statement that \"clearly says the security of Nato countries and Russia is intertwined, and the NRC [Nato Russia Council] member states will refrain from any use or threat of the use of force against each other,\" the source told Interfax.\"Russia has repeatedly raised the question about the need to ensure that there is no military planning aimed against one another,\" the source added.\"Obvious facts\" demonstrated that \"Russia is not building up its military presence near the borders of the countries mentioned in the release, but on the contrary it is coherently reducing heavy weaponry in the Kaliningrad region,\" the source said. Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Lithuania where Russia's Baltic Fleet is based.Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's president, has just completed a visit to Warsaw and is due in Brussels \u2013 where Nato is headquartered \u2013 for an EU-Russia summit today.His meetings in Poland had suggested a repairing of relations between Moscow and the former Soviet satellite, which could now be damaged.The two countries have clashed repeatedly over US plans for a missile defence shield in eastern Europe.Meanwhile, a leading Russian MP called for Nato to clarify its position. Leonid Slutsky, the deputy chairman of the state duma's international affairs committee, said that Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's ambassador to Nato, should establish \"whether such plans have really been secretly nurtured, or whether they represent the individual preference of one or other of the Nato states, without reflecting the collective position of the alliance\".Speaking to reporters in Brussels, Rogozin urged Nato to reject the defence plan outlined in the secret cables, saying it would \"provoke serious public resonance\" in Russia.But Alexei Fenenko, a security expert in Moscow, said: \"I don't see anything sensational in this news that Russia is seen as a potential military threat to the Nato states.\"These cables were leaked now as a provocation designed to undermine the recent tendency toward co-operation between Nato and Russia, and the improved relations between Poland and Russia over the last six months.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 13 December 2010. The original said that Kaliningrad is the exclave bordering Poland and Latvia. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "The US embassy cables", "Russia", "Nato", "US news", "Poland", "Estonia", "Latvia", "Lithuania", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks' Nato revelations cause 'bewilderment' in Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-02T13:38:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Friday, 30 October 2009, 11:53C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 03 MOSCOW 002688 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 10/26/2019 TAGS PGOV, PHUM, KDEM, RS SUBJECT: IS STALIN'S GHOST A THREAT TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM? REF: A) MOSCOW 2586 B) MOSCOW 1349Classified By: Pol Min Counselor Susan Elliott for reason 1.4 (d)1. (C) Summary: Efforts to sanitize Stalin's role in Soviet history may be potentially damaging to academic freedom and linked to GOR efforts to increase authoritarian rule. Although some recent incidents have caused concern among human rights monitors, thus far GOR efforts to enlist academics to help oppose \"falsification of history\" have not been strongly enforced. GOR rhetoric on the subject appears largely aimed at scoring political points in arguments with foreign countries. End Summary.Stalin's ghost haunts the Metro-------------------------------2. (SBU) The specter of Joseph Stalin continues to haunt post-Soviet Russia, as the GOR and average Russians alike struggle to reconcile their pride in past Soviet glories with the harsh fact that the Soviet system, especially under Stalin, destroyed the lives of millions of its citizens. This uneasy and ambivalent relationship with the past is further complicated by a GOR policy of occasionally exploiting nationalistic emotions about Soviet history -- especially the Soviet victory over the Nazis -- to buttress support for its own, modern brand of authoritarianism (ref A). The latest dispute flared up after Moscow City Hall announced on October 27 that it would add Lenin's name to artwork in the Kurskaya Metro station which, since August, has carried a restored verse from the 1944 version of the Soviet anthem praising Stalin. Moscow's chief architect, Aleksandr Kuzmin, told local media that he wanted to \"return Kurskaya to its original appearance,\" which would include a monument to Stalin. An article in the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, a paper not always known for liberal opposition, noted wryly that if the goal was to return things to their original appearance, it might be necessary to blanket the entire city with Stalin's image, as authorities had done during the height of Stalin's totalitarian reign of terror. Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov told Interfax October 28 that the city had no intention of placing a Stalin statue in the Metro, and the Moscow Patriarchate criticized the idea of \"Stalinist symbols\" in the Metro, calling it \"divisive.\"Academic freedom under threat?------------------------------3. (C) GOR efforts to sanitize Soviet history have continued throughout the year, and have the potential to reach into numerous walks of life and hence to encroach upon academic freedom. In May, the Kremlin announced that it had formed a \"Commission to Oppose Historical Falsification,\" and its state Duma supporters introduced legislation to defend Russia's honor in any discussion of World War II and the subsequent creation of the Soviet Union (ref B). Less than a month later, in June, XXXXXXXXXXXX leaked to us an email allegedly from V.A. Tishkov, the Chief of the History Section of RAN, politely \"requesting\" all faculty to present him with information in connection with the GOR's May announcement. The information requested included a list of sources of possible \"falsification\" in their field of study, and information about activity among their students promoting the spread of \"falsification\" or of \"concepts damaging to Russia's interests.\" More recently, on October 14, the Moscow Times reported that the German government had written a letter to President Medvedev complaining about an investigation into an Arkhangelsk historian, Mikhail Suprun, for \"violating privacy rights\" by researching deportations of Soviet Germans under Stalin. The police official who gave Suprun access to the archives is also accused of \"abuse of office,\" while Suprun could receive up to four years in prison, and has had what he called \"a lifetime's work\" on computers and research data confiscated by the Federal Security Service (FSB).4. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that she personally knew professors at academic institutions in Moscow who had received such memos during the summer, including memos asking them to \"identify falsifiers.\" She added that the Foreign Intelligence Service also has a presence at RAN. Discussing this potentially disturbing trend, XXXXXXXXXXXX also alluded to the \"unpleasant rewrites\" found in officially sanctioned textbooks which whitewash Stalin's role in the country's history. While acknowledging the existence of \"a broad variety\" of history books (approximately 24 schoolbooks on history are available in bookstores), XXXXXXXXXXXX noted that the official version outnumbers the others by 250,000 books to approximately 10-15,000. Furthermore, in Russia as in the U.S., parents do not buy their children's history books, but rather the schools order them, which XXXXXXXXXXXX said makes theMOSCOW 00002688 002 OF 003choice \"pre-determined.\" On October 24, the liberal Daily Journal reported the release of the latest in a long line of history textbooks rehabilitating Stalin; this one, ironically produced by the \"Enlightenment\" publishing company, denies the existence of totalitarianism in the USSR. The article noted that every time someone brings up the topic of history, it engendered a furious on-line debate.6. (C) XXXXXXXXXXXX told us that a \"virtual war\" has flared up between pro-Kremlin and anti-Kremlin bloggers every time someone published papers on the Internet that they received from state archives 15 years ago detailing Soviet human rights abuses. The papers date back 15 years, XXXXXXXXXXXX explained, because now, \"as in Soviet times,\" people need to complete special applications to receive permission to read such documents. A brief window opened after the fall of the Soviet Union, and just as quickly closed again.The past is not dead; it is not even past-----------------------------------------7. (C) For XXXXXXXXXXXX, such debates tell as much about the present as they do about the past. He believes that the GOR is \"trying to create a newly obedient society,\" which \"as in Orwell,\" only knows history from a standpoint beneficial to the authorities. According to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"when the power structure talks about falsification, they are simply attempting to hide part of history.\" He added that knowledge of the real history carries significant power. He was struck by the \"shock\" of people who learned historical facts, because \"sometimes just one fact can overturn a person's whole world view.\" For example, XXXXXXXXXXXX daughter, who studied in the USSR and teaches history in high school, upon learning that XXXXXXXXXXXX grandfather had been killed in the 1937 purges, talked of little else for several years afterward. According to XXXXXXXXXXX, \"the Kremlin fears people learning about past atrocities and crimes,\" and hence \"tries to manipulate people's consciousness.\" XXXXXXXXXXX added that he understands the GOR's policy, because \"if people knew the extent of Soviet crimes,\" the Kremlin would not be able to control the populace. XXXXXXXXXXXX expressed a similar view, saying that the GOR prefers to present itself as \"infallible, making only correct decisions,\" and that discussions about Stalin's misdeeds might lead to unwanted questions for today's government.8. (C) XXXXXXXXXXX said he suspected that at least some of the pro-Kremlin bloggers who participate in these historical debates were professionals in the pay of the GOR (and perhaps special services). This notion may not be so far-fetched. On October 21, Interfax reported that a supposedly private citizen named Mikhail Baranov had launched an Internet portal called \"Runivers\" to fight \"falsification of history\" by creating a historical and cultural electronic encyclopedia and library. The article describes Baranov's organization as \"non-commercial,\" and does not indicate from where -- during these economically tight times -- it receives its funding. However, a State Duma deputy who is a member of the Runivers board, Vladimir Medinskiy, lamented to Interfax that \"Russia does not have an institution that would be dealing in historical propaganda, which is why we are losing in the war aimed to falsify Russian history.\"A \"wink\" is the easiest response to GOR directives--------------------------------------------- -----9. (C) The fact that Russia currently lacks such a \"historical propaganda\" institution has thus far prevented any widespread attacks on academic freedom in the name of \"anti-falsification.\" XXXXXXXXXXXX, told us October 27 that he had heard no reports from any of his MGU colleagues of any pressure on them to present teaching materials or name names in order to ferret out \"falsification.\" He attributed this at least in part to the fact that, in contrast to neighboring Belarus, Russia has no Ideological Department which examines all teaching materials in schools and universities. XXXXXXXXXXXX also cautioned against leaping to Orwellian conclusions, reminding us not to \"underestimate the cynicism\" involved in administrative requests like the one at RAN. \"Everyone knows how to take such requests,\" she said; the request from the government is \"ugly,\" but unlike in Soviet times, when professors all depended upon the government for their currently there is no way to enforce such decrees. As a result, according to XXXXXXXXXXXX, \"people wink\"; the administrators, while passing along the government's request, make it clear to their subordinates that they themselves do not support it. XXXXXXXXXXXX pointed out that many historians may be outraged at the government's heavy-handedness and its \"real falsification of history,\" but they don't see themselves as a unified force.MOSCOW 00002688 003 OF 003The simplest response is to use the power of inertia, and to stonewall passively.Goal of GOR rhetoric: score political points at home--------------------------------------------- -------10. (C) For the GOR's part, it held a session of its Commission during the summer, and its director claimed that participants were \"not here to censor, but simply to oppose\" perceived attempts by other countries to gain at Russia's expense on the geopolitical scene. Although the stated focus is on international disputes, the GOR's primary audience for its hardline stance is domestic. Rhetoric defending Russia's honor on the international stage scores easy political points for the GOR at home. (Note: This occasionally results in some fancy footwork, as when Putin visited Poland on the anniversary of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, and wrote a conciliatory article for his Polish audience, which -- according to Lipman, by GOR design -- received scant coverage in Russian media. End Note.) As XXXXXXXXXXXX said, \"there is a lot of vagueness about the past, but World War II is the one thing everyone in Russia accepts, both liberal and conservative; the narrative is that Germany attacked, and we won.\" That Stalin continues to have a following, 56 years after his death, is undeniable. After Aleksandr Prokhanov, editor-in-chief of the ultranationalist paper Zavtra, praised Stalin on the \"Honest Monday\" political talk show on Gazprom-owned NTV, television audience members were invited to phone in their opinions. Of those who participated, 61 percent called Stalin a hero, 32 percent an enemy, and 7 percent \"a great, effective manager.\"Comment-------11. (C) Recent reports of the death of academic freedom in Russia are greatly exaggerated. GOR leaders have shown that they are willing to adopt nationalistic postures when it buttresses their popular support, but attempts to dictate academic terms thus far appear half-hearted. The GOR is no doubt telling the truth when it claims to place greater focus on external quarrels about its past than on domestic debates. It is undeniable that nationalists continue to link Russia's past greatness with its past political system, which showed disdain for the value of individual human life and for freedom of expression, and that this approach places these fundamental freedoms under threat. However, there remain enough Russians both in and out of the government who question the nationalists' logic and strive to keep the memory of Stalin's victims alive. In the meantime, the GOR occasionally remembers to name a street after Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn just to make sure that nobody confuses them with the Soviets. When discussing this issue, Russians frequently refer to the poet Anna Akhmatova, who, when Khrushchev opened the doors to Stalin's prisons, wrote that the half of Russia who had imprisoned the other half would now come face to face with its victims. Since according to a recent Levada poll, 27 percent of current Russians have relatives who perished under Stalin's rule, that \"other half\" is not going away any time soon. Beyrle", "tags": ["Joseph Stalin", "Russia", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Stalin's spectre haunts Russia"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is a corrupt, autocratic kleptocracy centred on the leadership of Vladimir Putin, in which officials, oligarchs and organised crime are bound together to create a \"virtual mafia state\", according to leaked secret diplomatic cables that provide a damning American assessment of its erstwhile rival superpower.Arms trafficking, money laundering, personal enrichment, protection for gangsters, extortion and kickbacks, suitcases full of money and secret offshore bank accounts in Cyprus: the cables paint a bleak picture of a political system in which bribery alone totals an estimated $300bn a year, and in which it is often hard to distinguish between the activities of the government and organised crime.Among the most striking allegations contained in the cables, which were leaked to the whistleblowers' website WikiLeaks, are:\u2022 Russian spies use senior mafia bosses to carry out criminal operations such as arms trafficking.\u2022 Law enforcement agencies such as the police, spy agencies and the prosecutor's office operate a de facto protection racket for criminal networks.\u2022 Rampant bribery acts like a parallel tax system for the personal enrichment of police, officials and the KGB's successor, the federal security service (FSB).\u2022 Investigators looking into Russian mafia links to Spain have compiled a list of Russian prosecutors, military officers and politicians who have dealings with organised crime networks.\u2022 Putin is accused of amassing \"illicit proceeds\" from his time in office, which various sources allege are hidden overseas.The allegations come hours before Putin was due to address Fifa's executive committee in Zurich in support of Russia's bid to host the 2018 World Cup. Putin last night abruptly cancelled his trip, complaining of a smear campaign to \"discredit\" Fifa members. In an angry interview with CNN's Larry King Live, recorded before the latest disclosures, Putin also denounced the cables and warned the US not to stick its nose in Russia's affairs.He made clear he was not amused by a US diplomat's description of him as \"Batman\" and President Dmitry Medvedev as \"Robin\". \"To be honest with you, we did not suspect that this [criticism] could be made with such arrogance, with such rudeness, and you know, so unethically,\" Putin remarked.The principal allegations stem from a Spanish prosecutor, Jos\u00e9 Grinda Gonz\u00e1lez, who has spent more than a decade trying to unravel the activities of Russian organised crime in Spain. Spanish authorities have arrested more than 60 suspects, including the top four mafia bosses outside Russia.In a startling briefing for US officials in January, Grinda said Russia was a \"virtual mafia state\" in which \"one cannot differentiate between the activities of the government and OC [organised crime] groups\".Grinda said he had evidence \u2013 thousands of wiretaps have been used in the last 10 years \u2013 that certain political parties in Russia worked hand in hand with mafia groups. He alleged that intelligence officials orchestrated gun shipments to Kurdish groups to destabilise Turkey and were pulling the strings behind the 2009 case of the Arctic Sea cargo ship suspected of carrying missiles destined for Iran.At the summit of what is known in Russia as the power \"vertical\" lies the Kremlin, a prime beneficiary of the entrenched system of kickbacks, bribes, protection money and suspect contracts.In a detailed and apparently plausible analysis of how corruption in the capital works, the US ambassador John Beyrle cited one source as saying: \"Everything depends on the Kremlin \u2026 [former Moscow mayor Yuri] Luzhkov, as well as many mayors and governors, pay off key insiders in the Kremlin.\"Beneath the Kremlin is a broad layer of top officials \u2013 mayors and governors \u2013 collecting money based on bribes almost like their own personal taxation system. At the next level down the FSB, interior ministry and police collect protection money from businesses, licit and illicit.\"Criminal elements enjoy a krysha [a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning roof or protection] that runs through the police, the federal security service, ministry of internal affairs (MVD) and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy,\" Beyrle noted. \"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government.\"Grinda said the FSB had two ways to eliminate \"OC leaders who do not do what the security services want them to do\". The first was to kill them. The second was to put them in jail to \"eliminate them as a competitor for influence\".Sometimes the FSB put crime lords in prison for their own protection. Luckier crime leaders might end up in parliament. \"The government of Russia takes the relationship with organised crime leaders still further by granting them privileges of politics, in order to grant them immunity from racketeering charges,\" Beyrle noted.The US is not alone in its assessments. In one cable, the Foreign Office's Russia director, Michael Davenport, is quoted as calling Russia a \"corrupt autocracy\".The cables also reveal that the Americans believe Putin was likely to have known about the operation to murder Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006.The Kremlin has denied involvement but a remark by another US ambassador in Moscow, Williams Burns, sums up US attitudestowards the new Russia: \"Whatever the truth may ultimately be [about Litvinenko] \u2013 and it may never be known \u2013 the tendency here to almost automatically assume that someone in or close to Putin's inner-circle is the author of these deaths speaks volumes about expectations of Kremlin behaviour.\"Russia's foreign intelligence chief said yesterday that he would order his spies to study the cables relating to Russia. Mikhail Fradkov, the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service (SVR), told the ITAR-TASS news agency: \"There are many issues which have been revealed by the disclosure by WikiLeaks \u2013 this is material for analysis. We shall report our conclusions to the leadership of the country.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 2 December 2010. The original gave an incomplete name for a Spanish prosecutor, referring to him as Jos\u00e9 Gonz\u00e1lez. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "The US embassy cables", "Alexander Litvinenko", "Spain", "Mafia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "US foreign policy", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables condemn Russia as 'mafia state'"},{"date": "2010-12-01T21:30:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia provided Grad missiles and other arms to separatists in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and carried out a wave of \"covert actions\" to undermine Georgia in the runup to the 2008 Russian-Georgian war, US diplomatic cables say.The Kremlin's hostile measures against Georgia included missile attacks, murder plots and \"a host of smaller-scale actions\", the leaked cables said. Russian secret services also ran a disinformation campaign against Georgia's pro-American, pro-Nato president, Mikheil Saakashvili, claiming he suffered from \"paranoid dysfunction\".\"The cumulative weight of the evidence of the last few years suggests that the Russians are aggressively playing a high-stakes covert game, and they consider few if any holds barred,\" the US ambassador in Tbilisi, John Tefft, wrote on 20 August 2007 in a classified cable.One Kremlin aim was to remove Saakashvili, Tefft wrote. But the \"variety and extent of the active measures suggests the deeper goal is turning Georgia from its Euroatlantic orientation back into the Russian fold\", he said. Its aim was also to \"provoke the Georgian leadership into a rash reaction that separates Georgia further from the west\".In the cable Tefft reviewed a long list of suspected Russian actions aimed at destabilising Georgia. These included a missile attack in Kodori \u2013 an area of Abkhazia then controlled by Georgia \u2013 the blowing up of a Georgian police car, and a suspected plot to kill an opposition figure.Tefft said there was incontrovertible evidence that Moscow was giving \"direct, if at times thinly veiled, support\" to Georgia's two separatist regions against the wishes of the Georgian government. This support was also military: \"The South Ossetians have reportedly received arms and equipment from Russia, including Grad missiles, on various occasions, including during recent tensions.\"The ambassador's leaked cables are likely to reopen the acrimonious and still inconclusive debate over who was to blame for starting the 2008 war. Russia insists Saakashvili triggered the conflict by sending tanks in to recapture South Ossetia, prompting Russia to launch its own counteroperation to protect the lives of Russian citizens.Saakashvili, however, insists he was forced to act after intolerable Russian provocation. He has blamed Moscow for deliberately frustrating his attempts to reach a deal with South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and has said the Russians financed, armed, guided and nurtured the two separatist movements.The cables broadly support Saakashvili's view. In his dispatches to Washington the ambassador reported that Russia's FSB spy agency directly controlled South Ossetia, with Russian FSB agents sitting in the government of rebel president Eduard Kokoity. \"In South Ossetia, many de facto cabinet ministers and advisers to Kokoity are Russian officials \u2013 in most cases believed to be FSB,\" Tefft wrote, noting that the FSB agents were rotated in and out of Russia.Russia even paid the salaries of police and other civil servants in South Ossetia \u2013 and increased their wages to stop them from defecting to a Georgian-backed rival administration. It also handed out Russian passports to 95% per cent of the enclave's residents, Tefft said, \u2013 creating instant citizens whom Russia would \"defend\" the following year.Tefft acknowledged that Abkhazia's de facto government had a \"somewhat greater degree of independence from Moscow\" than its South Ossetian counterpart. But he said it was evident the Russians still had \"great leverage\" over Abkhazia's Soviet-mentality president, Sergei Bagapsh, who frequently travelled to Moscow for consultations.When Bagapsh fell ill in April 2007, he was flown to Moscow for emergency treatment on an FSB plane, Tefft said, citing information from the Georgians. Tefft went on: \"Several sources have also told us that a senior FSB officer actually lives in a separate residence on Bagapsh's presidential compound.\"The cables make clear that in the months leading up to the war the Bush administration urged Saakashvili to shrug off Russia's goading and act with restraint. In a meeting in Paris on 13 June 2007, William Burns, then the US ambassador to Moscow, advised Saakashvili to \"avoid antagonising them [the Russians]\".Burns expressed sympathy with the predicament of Saakashvili, who told the Americans he believed Putin was \"personally committed to removing Abkhazia from Georgia\" \u2013 a prophecy that turned out to be correct. He said Russia couldn't be trusted, and called for a Nato membership action plan for Georgia as a \"'deterrent' against Russian adventurism\".The cables also chronicle Russia's anger and growing frustration with Georgia. In November 2006 Russia's deputy foreign minister, Grigoriy Karasin, complained to Matt Bryza, the US deputy assistant secretary of state, after Tbilisi arrested four Russian officers on espionage charges. \"Our patience is at an end,\" Karasin said.According to a cable written by Burns, Bryza said the US had warned Saakashvili not to engage in any military action. \"He (Byrza) has been clear with Saakashvili: if Georgia uses force or stumbles into a conflict, Saakashvili will find himself alone, blamed by the international community for recklessness.\" When the war began most western governments, including the UK, blamed the Kremlin \u2013 seeing Russia's military operation not as a peacekeeping mission but an old-style invasion. To the chagrin of Washington, Moscow swiftly recognised South Ossetia and Abkhazia as independent, arguing that the Americans had done the same thing with Kosovo.The cables reveal that Russia's actions prompted much diplomatic soul-searching. On 28 August 2008 \u2013 soon after the French president, Nicholas Sarkozy, brokered an EU peace deal \u2013 the Foreign Office's defence and intelligence officials pondered the war's implications. Mariot Leslie \u2013 now the UK's ambassador to Nato \u2013 dubbed it a \"strategic tectonic shift in international relations\", the US embassy in London recorded.Asked whether Russia's decision to go into Georgia was part of an overall change of strategy, Leslie replied with exquisite equivocation. She said she was \"still assessing if it was a strategic decision or a tactical decision with strategic consequences\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Georgia", "Arms trade", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US news", "US national security", "Europe"], "title": "WikiLeaks cables claim Russia armed Georgian separatists"},{"date": "2010-11-05T16:28:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia and Russia were today heading towards a new crisis after Tbilisi announced it had dismantled a Moscow-run spy ring, arresting four Russians and nine Georgians.The Russian government rejected the charges, denouncing them as a \"provocation\" timed to disrupt the Russian-Nato summit in Portugal later this month.The crisis comes little more than two years after the countries went to war, with bilateral relations still extremely tense.The interior ministry in Tbilisi said the 13 people arrested were part of a conspiracy inside the Georgian air force and were passing secrets to the Russian GRU military intelligence. In a statement issued today, the ministry said the detainees included six Georgian military pilots accused of passing on secret information about air force operations.Georgian officials alleged that they were recruited by the GRU a decade ago, at the time they were stationed next to a Russian military base in Batumi, on the Black Sea coast.A radio specialist in the Georgian navy was also arrested on charges of giving \"secret information to the GRU on military communications and radio call signs\".Bakur Kiguradze, a prominent businessman, is one of the Georgian civilians detained. He has been charged with giving the GRU secrets \"on military cooperation between Georgia and other countries\".Officials said three of the Russian detainees are civilians, including the director and deputy director of Saybolt Georgia, a subsidiary of a Texas-owned oil services company. The fourth is alleged to be their GRU handler.Government officials said the spy ring involved \"dozens\" of others who have not so far been detained. They said the ring was broken by a Georgian double agent who \"gained the trust of Russian military intelligence and started working for this agency as a liaison officer\".The statement added: \"In order to carry out espionage activities, Russians gave him special computer hardware and software for encrypting the exchanged information.\"The mole then passed on the equipment to Georgian counter-intelligence, allowing them to break GRU codes, it said.Russia's foreign ministry dismissed the account as fantasy, saying the Georgian government \"suffers from chronic spy mania and an anti-Russian bias\".But another foreign ministry source told Interfax: \"We are deeply outraged over the detention of Russian citizens in Georgia. We are investigating the situation at the moment.\"Obviously, it was done ahead of the Russia-Nato summit in Lisbon and the OSCE summit in Astana in order to draw as much attention as possible [to Georgia] and to harm Russia.\"A source in the Russian security services added: \"This is the latest invention of Georgia's leadership designed to aggravate the already difficult relations between our countries. Anti-Russian hysteria is gathering tempo in Georgia, and this 'spy scandal' is Tbilisi's latest provocation.\"The last major spy crisis between the countries erupted after Georgia arrested four Russian military officers in 2006. Moscow recalled its ambassador, evacuated its embassy staff, and cut off air, road and sea links to the former Soviet republic.Shota Utiashvili, the head of analysis at the Georgian interior ministry, insisted the arrests were the result of a careful investigation. \"We think it is one of the most serious spy rings we have caught in the country,\" he said. Thirteen people have been detained over the past year, and there are dozens of others we know that have been connected to the ring,\" Utiashvili told the Guardian.\"We know they have been transferring very sensitive information, including military information, to the GRU \u2013 unfortunately some of it during the war.\"Georgian officials said messages were exchanged via picture and music files, sent as emails, which could only be decoded using other picture or music files.According to the Georgian account, the pilots were apparently not well paid for their espionage, and in some cases compensation amounted to little more than a guaranteed military pension.In return, they allegedly signed secret 25-year contracts with the GRU as far back as 2000.At that time, the political landscape in the Caucasus looked very different. There was a powerful Russian military presence in Batumi, where the two countries controlled neighbouring bases, and the surrounding Adzharia region was run by a secessionist warlord, Aslan Abashidze. Abashidze was ousted in 2004, and Adzharia was put back under Tbilisi's rule.Since a week-long war in August 2008 over control of the pro-Russian South Ossetia enclave, Russian forces have withdrawn from most of Georgia, but Moscow retains control of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.Relations between Tbilisi and Moscow have wavered between tense and hostile since the 2003 rose revolution in Georgia brought down Eduard Shevardnadze, a former Soviet foreign minister, and brought to power a young, nationalist, government under the current president, Mikheil Saakashvilli.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Espionage"], "title": "Georgia and Russia collide over 'spy ring'"},{"date": "2010-12-28T21:13:50Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's government came out fighting today in response to international criticism over the jailing of the oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, warning European countries and the US to \"mind their own business\".Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, issued a statement yesterday saying Khodorkovsky's conviction raised \"serious questions about selective prosecution and about the rule of law being overshadowed by political considerations\".But a foreign ministry spokesman in Moscow said: \"Judgments about some kind of selective application of justice in Russia are without foundation. We are counting on everyone minding his own business \u2013 both at home, and in the international arena.\" Khodorkovsky, 47, and his business partner, Platon Lebedev, 54, were found guilty of theft and money laundering by a Moscow court yesterday.Critics say the trial constitutes revenge for the tycoon's questioning of a state monopoly on oil pipelines and propping up political parties that oppose the Kremlin.The two men's fate remains unclear because sentencing will not take place until the trial judge, Viktor Danilkin, finishes reading his 250-page verdict, which could take several days.Clinton's censure was echoed by politicians in Britain and Germany, and Catherine Ashton, the EU foreign policy chief, urged Moscow to \"respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law\".The Russian foreign ministry spokesman hit back at criticism from abroad, saying that \"in connection with statements from Washington and a series of European capitals, we would like to underline once more that this question is a matter for the judicial system of the Russian Federation. Attempts to place pressure on the court are unacceptable\".The trial related to \"serious accusations of tax avoidance and laundering of criminally-received income\", he said. \"In any country such deeds require criminal punishment. In the United States, by the way, life sentences are given for these acts.\"The spokesman referred to comments by Dmitry Medvedev, on Friday, saying Russia's president had \"stressed that nobody has the right to interfere in the prerogatives of the judicial authorities\".Khodorkovsky and Lebedev have been in jail on earlier fraud and tax evasion charges since 2003.They are due for release next year but prosecutors in the current trial want them to stay in jail until 2017.Vadim Klyuvgant, Khodorkovksy's lead lawyer, dismissed the Russian foreign ministry's reaction to criticism as a \"mix of glaring incompetence and outright lies\".He pointed out that the ministry referred to Khodorkovksy and Lebedev's prosecution being related to tax evasion, which was in fact a charge in their first trial, which concluded in 2005.He also disputed the claim that the trial came under the exclusive jurisdiction of Russian authorities. \"The Russian Federation - and knowledge of this is one of the direct duties of the foreign ministry - has accepted the jurisdiction of the European convention on human rights, under which defence of human rights is not an internal matter of any state but one of the values that stand above national legislation,\" he told the Interfax news agency.Several hundred protesters gathered around the trial court in Moscow's Khamovniki district shouting, \"Shame!\" and \"Russia without Putin!\" as proceedings got under way inside.Danilkin resumed reading his verdict this morning, as police closed streets around the court to traffic.Asked about Khodorkvosky's second trial, Vladimir Putin, the prime minister, said earlier this month: \"A thief should be in jail.\"Khodorkovsky's backers condemned that as open pressure on the court, but Putin later claimed he was referring only to the businessman's first conviction.In her comments yesterday, Clinton said the case had a \"negative impact on Russia's reputation for fulfilling its international human rights obligations and improving its investment climate\".", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia lashes out at western critics of Khodorkovsky trial"},{"date": "2010-12-22T21:04:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The US Senate ratified an arms control treaty with Russia today that reduces the number of both countries' nuclear weapons, giving President Barack Obama a major foreign policy success in the closing hours of the outgoing session of the current Congress.Thirteen Republicans broke with their top representatives in the upper house and joined 56 Democrats and two independents to provide the necessary two-thirds vote to approve the treaty. The vote was 71-26.The accord, which still must be approved by Russia, would restart weapons inspections as successors to President Ronald Reagan have embraced his edict of \"trust, but verify\".The vice president, Joe Biden, presided over the Senate and announced the vote. The secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, observed the vote from the Senate floor. Both had lobbied vigorously for the treaty's approval.\"The question is whether we move the world a little out of the dark shadow of nuclear nightmare,\" the foreign relations committee chairman, John Kerry, said moments before the vote.Calling the treaty a national security imperative, Obama had pressed for its approval before a new, more Republican Congress assumes power in January.The Obama administration has argued that the United States must show credibility in its improved relations with its former cold war foe, and that the treaty was critical to any rapprochement. The White House is counting on Russia to help pressure Iran over its nuclear ambitions.The new strategic arms reduction treaty (Start) \u2013 signed by Obama and the Russian resident, Dmitry Medvedev, in April \u2013 would limit each country's strategic nuclear warheads to 1,550, down from the current ceiling of 2,200. It also would establish a system for monitoring and verification. US weapons inspections ended last year with the expiry of a 1991 treaty.Obama overcame the opposition of the Senate's top two Republicans \u2013 the minority leader, Mitch McConnell, and Jon Kyl, the party's point man on the treaty.Peeved by the Democrats' interruption of the eight days of treaty debate for other legislation, McConnell accused the White House of politicising the process.McConnell said national security was the main concern, \"not some politician's desire to declare a political victory and hold a press conference before the first of the year\".The ratification was a turnaround for a treaty whose fate was uncertain just a month ago. Conservatives had claimed that the pact would limit US options on missile defence, lacked sufficient procedures to verify Russia's adherence and deserved more time for consideration.Republican senator Mark Kirk, who won Obama's Senate seat, dismissed the treaty for imposing \"marginal reductions in the Russian arsenal\".The fierce opposition diminished quickly as former presidents George Bush Sr and Bill Clinton, six former Republican secretaries of state and many of the nation's military and foreign policy experts called for the treaty's ratification.The defence secretary, Robert Gates, and the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , Admiral Mike Mullen, pressed for approval, with Mullen telling senators earlier this week, \"the sooner, the better\".", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Barack Obama", "Russia", "US politics", "US Congress", "Nuclear weapons", "Europe"], "title": "US Senate approves nuclear arms control treaty with Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:50:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities either denied entry to or deported more than 40 members of the media between 2000 to 2008, according to statistics from the Moscow-based press freedom group Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations. British journalists who have been denied entry or expelled include:In 1989 Roxburgh was expelled from what was then the Soviet Union while working as Moscow correspondent for the Sunday Times, as tension over the collapse of communism in eastern Europe was reaching its peak. Longtime Russo-phile Roxburgh was expelled by the KGB for supposed \"unacceptable activities\". He was effectively deemed a \"spy\", in a tit for tat expulsion. Within months he was back in Russia \u2013 with the KGB reportedly furious at his swift return \u2013 later covering Moscow's \"August Coup\" for the Guardian in 1991. Roxburgh went on to become the BBC's man in Moscow in the 1990s. In 2006 he was hired as a spin doctor to the Kremlin as part of a team including Tim Allan, the former Labour press officer who founded PR agency Portland, employed to smooth Russia's image ahead of a G8 summit in St Petersburg.In 2006 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied British journalist de Waal an entry visa, citing \"state security\" as its reason. De Waal, who had worked in Moscow for the English-language Moscow Times, the Times and the BBC, had been due to attend the presentation of a Russian version of his book in Nagorno-Karabakh. He believed his ban was a retaliation over critical reporting about the conflict in Chechnya. He wrote the introduction to murdered journalist Anna Politkovskaya's first book in English, A Dirty War.In 2008 British freelance journalist Pirani was refused entry in Moscow and sent back to London, despite having a valid multiple-entry visa, after officials deemed him a security threat. He was not told how exactly he posed a threat, although a trip the year before had involved visiting trade unions and civil rights representatives for interviews relating to a book. Pirani had worked in Russia as a reporter and academic researcher regularly since the 1990s. He is a National Union of Journalists activist who specialises in covering the former Soviet Union.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Russia", "Media", "Press freedom", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "British journalists frozen out of Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:50:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities either denied entry to or deported more than 40 members of the media between 2000 to 2008, according to statistics from the Moscow-based press freedom group Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations. British journalists who have been denied entry or expelled include:In 1989 Roxburgh was expelled from what was then the Soviet Union while working as Moscow correspondent for the Sunday Times, as tension over the collapse of communism in eastern Europe was reaching its peak. Longtime Russo-phile Roxburgh was expelled by the KGB for supposed \"unacceptable activities\". He was effectively deemed a \"spy\", in a tit for tat expulsion. Within months he was back in Russia \u2013 with the KGB reportedly furious at his swift return \u2013 later covering Moscow's \"August Coup\" for the Guardian in 1991. Roxburgh went on to become the BBC's man in Moscow in the 1990s. In 2006 he was hired as a spin doctor to the Kremlin as part of a team including Tim Allan, the former Labour press officer who founded PR agency Portland, employed to smooth Russia's image ahead of a G8 summit in St Petersburg.In 2006 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied British journalist de Waal an entry visa, citing \"state security\" as its reason. De Waal, who had worked in Moscow for the English-language Moscow Times, the Times and the BBC, had been due to attend the presentation of a Russian version of his book in Nagorno-Karabakh. He believed his ban was a retaliation over critical reporting about the conflict in Chechnya. He wrote the introduction to murdered journalist Anna Politkovskaya's first book in English, A Dirty War.In 2008 British freelance journalist Pirani was refused entry in Moscow and sent back to London, despite having a valid multiple-entry visa, after officials deemed him a security threat. He was not told how exactly he posed a threat, although a trip the year before had involved visiting trade unions and civil rights representatives for interviews relating to a book. Pirani had worked in Russia as a reporter and academic researcher regularly since the 1990s. He is a National Union of Journalists activist who specialises in covering the former Soviet Union.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Russia", "Media", "Press freedom", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "British journalists frozen out of Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-09T21:11:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry has reversed its decision to deport the Guardian's Moscow correspondent, saying that Luke Harding would be granted an extension to his visa to carry on reporting if the newspaper wanted him to.The U-turn came just before a rare visit by Russia's foreign minister to the UK and follows widespread criticism from British politicians of the journalist's removal.Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the ministry, said the country was ready to issue a visa so Harding could \"continue his activity for the amount of time his tenure in Russia has been extended\".On Tuesday Harding had been told that he would only be allowed to return to Russia until his visa expired at the end of May \u2013 with the foreign ministry blaming the journalist for failing to take a press card with him before going abroad.Last weekend Harding was deported when he returned to Russia after a stint in London reporting on the WikiLeaks cables, becoming the first journalist employed by a newspaper or broadcaster to be kicked out of the country since the end of the cold war.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding, based on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables, which reported that the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, was likely to have known about the planned assassination of Alexander Litvinenko because of his \"attention to detail\".The Guardian said: \"We welcome the offer from the Russian foreign ministry to give our Moscow correspondent, Luke Harding, a new visa so he may continue to work in Russia. Luke and the Guardian are now considering the offer very carefully.\"The row has threatened to overshadow the visit of Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, who is due in the UK for a diplomatic visit early next week.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Journalist safety", "Censorship", "Media", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia U-turns over Guardian journalist's deportation"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:50:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities either denied entry to or deported more than 40 members of the media between 2000 to 2008, according to statistics from the Moscow-based press freedom group Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations. British journalists who have been denied entry or expelled include:In 1989 Roxburgh was expelled from what was then the Soviet Union while working as Moscow correspondent for the Sunday Times, as tension over the collapse of communism in eastern Europe was reaching its peak. Longtime Russo-phile Roxburgh was expelled by the KGB for supposed \"unacceptable activities\". He was effectively deemed a \"spy\", in a tit for tat expulsion. Within months he was back in Russia \u2013 with the KGB reportedly furious at his swift return \u2013 later covering Moscow's \"August Coup\" for the Guardian in 1991. Roxburgh went on to become the BBC's man in Moscow in the 1990s. In 2006 he was hired as a spin doctor to the Kremlin as part of a team including Tim Allan, the former Labour press officer who founded PR agency Portland, employed to smooth Russia's image ahead of a G8 summit in St Petersburg.In 2006 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied British journalist de Waal an entry visa, citing \"state security\" as its reason. De Waal, who had worked in Moscow for the English-language Moscow Times, the Times and the BBC, had been due to attend the presentation of a Russian version of his book in Nagorno-Karabakh. He believed his ban was a retaliation over critical reporting about the conflict in Chechnya. He wrote the introduction to murdered journalist Anna Politkovskaya's first book in English, A Dirty War.In 2008 British freelance journalist Pirani was refused entry in Moscow and sent back to London, despite having a valid multiple-entry visa, after officials deemed him a security threat. He was not told how exactly he posed a threat, although a trip the year before had involved visiting trade unions and civil rights representatives for interviews relating to a book. Pirani had worked in Russia as a reporter and academic researcher regularly since the 1990s. He is a National Union of Journalists activist who specialises in covering the former Soviet Union.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Russia", "Media", "Press freedom", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "British journalists frozen out of Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-09T21:11:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry has reversed its decision to deport the Guardian's Moscow correspondent, saying that Luke Harding would be granted an extension to his visa to carry on reporting if the newspaper wanted him to.The U-turn came just before a rare visit by Russia's foreign minister to the UK and follows widespread criticism from British politicians of the journalist's removal.Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the ministry, said the country was ready to issue a visa so Harding could \"continue his activity for the amount of time his tenure in Russia has been extended\".On Tuesday Harding had been told that he would only be allowed to return to Russia until his visa expired at the end of May \u2013 with the foreign ministry blaming the journalist for failing to take a press card with him before going abroad.Last weekend Harding was deported when he returned to Russia after a stint in London reporting on the WikiLeaks cables, becoming the first journalist employed by a newspaper or broadcaster to be kicked out of the country since the end of the cold war.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding, based on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables, which reported that the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, was likely to have known about the planned assassination of Alexander Litvinenko because of his \"attention to detail\".The Guardian said: \"We welcome the offer from the Russian foreign ministry to give our Moscow correspondent, Luke Harding, a new visa so he may continue to work in Russia. Luke and the Guardian are now considering the offer very carefully.\"The row has threatened to overshadow the visit of Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, who is due in the UK for a diplomatic visit early next week.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Journalist safety", "Censorship", "Media", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia U-turns over Guardian journalist's deportation"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:16:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Guardian's Moscow correspondent has been expelled from Russia, in what is believed to be the first removal of a British staff journalist from the country since the end of the cold war.Luke Harding's forced departure comes after the newspaper's reporting of the WikiLeaks cables, where he reported on allegations that Russia under the rule of Vladimir Putin had become a \"virtual mafia state\".The journalist flew back to Moscow at the weekend after a two-month stint reporting on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables from London, but was refused entry when his passport was checked on his arrival.After spending 45 minutes in an airport cell, he was sent back to the UK on the first available plane \u2013 with his visa annulled and his passport only returned to him after taking his seat. Harding was given no specific reason for the decision, although an airport security official working for the Federal Border Service, an arm of the FSB intelligence agency, told him: \"For you Russia is closed.\"The tightly controlled nature of Russian politics means the expulsion is likely to have been ordered at a very senior level, but the British government has so far been unable to find out any more details about the decision.William Hague, the foreign secretary, contacted his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Monday afternoon in an effort to establish what had happened. It is understood Lavrov had no explanation to offer, and promised only to look into the matter.Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian editor-in-chief, said: \"This is clearly a very troubling development with serious implications for press freedom, and it is worrying that the Russian government should now kick out reporters of whom they disapprove. Russia's treatment of journalists \u2013 both domestic and foreign \u2013 is a cause of great concern. We are attempting to establish further details, and are in contact with the Foreign Office.\"The last prominent British journalist to be expelled was Sunday Times correspondent Angus Roxburgh, who was kicked out of Russia in 1989 in a \"tit for tat\" expulsion after Margaret Thatcher asked 11 Russian spies to leave London. He returned a few months later after the fall of communism, working for the BBC.Harding's expulsion follows several incidents of harassment amid official disapproval of his coverage. He was briefly detained in April 2010 in Ingushetia after a visit to the troubled the Caucasus region. In May he interviewed the Dagestani father of Mariam Sharipova, a suicide bomber who killed 26 people on the Moscow Metro in March 2010.Although western reporters are not subject to anything like the dangers of some of their Russian counterparts, several of whom have been murdered for delving too deeply into the corruption and mafia nexus at the heart of the Putin state, English-speaking Moscow correspondents are careful about what and how they report.Sensitive areas include references to the alleged personal wealth built up by Putin, any discussion about corruption that is linked to senior government individuals, or any reporting that implies the Kremlin had any prior knowledge of the plot to kill the former spy Alexander Litvinenko.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding which reported that Putin was likely to have known about the planned assassination in the opinion of Washington's top diplomat in Europe because of the Russian prime minister's \"attention to detail\". That report was part of the newspaper's WikiLeaks coverage.Harding may have further irritated the Russians because other newspapers covering the WikiLeaks diplomatic cables opted to farm out the reporting of their contents relating to the country to correspondents based outside the country. He believed it was appropriate to put his name on the Russian WikiLeaks coverage because the authorities would have believed it was he who wrote the material anyway.After the cables were first published, Harding co-authored a book, WikiLeaks: Inside Julian Assange's War on Secrecy, revealing the inside story of the publication of the confidential documents.Harding said: \"I didn't go out to Russia with any particular agenda and I'm sad to leave under these circumstances. But I do not think journalists can accept self-censorship.\"John Kampfner, director of Index on Censorship, said: \"The Russian government's treatment of Luke Harding is petty and vindictive, and evidence \u2013 if more was needed \u2013 of the poor state of free expression in that country.\"The Foreign Office confirmed it had been in contact with its Russian counterparts, \"including through a call from the foreign secretary\". British officials said they were awaiting a reply.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Guardian", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Newspapers & magazines", "Guardian Media Group", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Media", "Freedom of speech", "World news", "Vladimir Putin", "UK news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Guardian's Moscow correspondent expelled from Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:50:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities either denied entry to or deported more than 40 members of the media between 2000 to 2008, according to statistics from the Moscow-based press freedom group Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations. British journalists who have been denied entry or expelled include:In 1989 Roxburgh was expelled from what was then the Soviet Union while working as Moscow correspondent for the Sunday Times, as tension over the collapse of communism in eastern Europe was reaching its peak. Longtime Russo-phile Roxburgh was expelled by the KGB for supposed \"unacceptable activities\". He was effectively deemed a \"spy\", in a tit for tat expulsion. Within months he was back in Russia \u2013 with the KGB reportedly furious at his swift return \u2013 later covering Moscow's \"August Coup\" for the Guardian in 1991. Roxburgh went on to become the BBC's man in Moscow in the 1990s. In 2006 he was hired as a spin doctor to the Kremlin as part of a team including Tim Allan, the former Labour press officer who founded PR agency Portland, employed to smooth Russia's image ahead of a G8 summit in St Petersburg.In 2006 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied British journalist de Waal an entry visa, citing \"state security\" as its reason. De Waal, who had worked in Moscow for the English-language Moscow Times, the Times and the BBC, had been due to attend the presentation of a Russian version of his book in Nagorno-Karabakh. He believed his ban was a retaliation over critical reporting about the conflict in Chechnya. He wrote the introduction to murdered journalist Anna Politkovskaya's first book in English, A Dirty War.In 2008 British freelance journalist Pirani was refused entry in Moscow and sent back to London, despite having a valid multiple-entry visa, after officials deemed him a security threat. He was not told how exactly he posed a threat, although a trip the year before had involved visiting trade unions and civil rights representatives for interviews relating to a book. Pirani had worked in Russia as a reporter and academic researcher regularly since the 1990s. He is a National Union of Journalists activist who specialises in covering the former Soviet Union.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Russia", "Media", "Press freedom", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "British journalists frozen out of Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-09T21:11:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry has reversed its decision to deport the Guardian's Moscow correspondent, saying that Luke Harding would be granted an extension to his visa to carry on reporting if the newspaper wanted him to.The U-turn came just before a rare visit by Russia's foreign minister to the UK and follows widespread criticism from British politicians of the journalist's removal.Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the ministry, said the country was ready to issue a visa so Harding could \"continue his activity for the amount of time his tenure in Russia has been extended\".On Tuesday Harding had been told that he would only be allowed to return to Russia until his visa expired at the end of May \u2013 with the foreign ministry blaming the journalist for failing to take a press card with him before going abroad.Last weekend Harding was deported when he returned to Russia after a stint in London reporting on the WikiLeaks cables, becoming the first journalist employed by a newspaper or broadcaster to be kicked out of the country since the end of the cold war.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding, based on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables, which reported that the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, was likely to have known about the planned assassination of Alexander Litvinenko because of his \"attention to detail\".The Guardian said: \"We welcome the offer from the Russian foreign ministry to give our Moscow correspondent, Luke Harding, a new visa so he may continue to work in Russia. Luke and the Guardian are now considering the offer very carefully.\"The row has threatened to overshadow the visit of Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, who is due in the UK for a diplomatic visit early next week.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Journalist safety", "Censorship", "Media", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia U-turns over Guardian journalist's deportation"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:16:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Guardian's Moscow correspondent has been expelled from Russia, in what is believed to be the first removal of a British staff journalist from the country since the end of the cold war.Luke Harding's forced departure comes after the newspaper's reporting of the WikiLeaks cables, where he reported on allegations that Russia under the rule of Vladimir Putin had become a \"virtual mafia state\".The journalist flew back to Moscow at the weekend after a two-month stint reporting on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables from London, but was refused entry when his passport was checked on his arrival.After spending 45 minutes in an airport cell, he was sent back to the UK on the first available plane \u2013 with his visa annulled and his passport only returned to him after taking his seat. Harding was given no specific reason for the decision, although an airport security official working for the Federal Border Service, an arm of the FSB intelligence agency, told him: \"For you Russia is closed.\"The tightly controlled nature of Russian politics means the expulsion is likely to have been ordered at a very senior level, but the British government has so far been unable to find out any more details about the decision.William Hague, the foreign secretary, contacted his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Monday afternoon in an effort to establish what had happened. It is understood Lavrov had no explanation to offer, and promised only to look into the matter.Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian editor-in-chief, said: \"This is clearly a very troubling development with serious implications for press freedom, and it is worrying that the Russian government should now kick out reporters of whom they disapprove. Russia's treatment of journalists \u2013 both domestic and foreign \u2013 is a cause of great concern. We are attempting to establish further details, and are in contact with the Foreign Office.\"The last prominent British journalist to be expelled was Sunday Times correspondent Angus Roxburgh, who was kicked out of Russia in 1989 in a \"tit for tat\" expulsion after Margaret Thatcher asked 11 Russian spies to leave London. He returned a few months later after the fall of communism, working for the BBC.Harding's expulsion follows several incidents of harassment amid official disapproval of his coverage. He was briefly detained in April 2010 in Ingushetia after a visit to the troubled the Caucasus region. In May he interviewed the Dagestani father of Mariam Sharipova, a suicide bomber who killed 26 people on the Moscow Metro in March 2010.Although western reporters are not subject to anything like the dangers of some of their Russian counterparts, several of whom have been murdered for delving too deeply into the corruption and mafia nexus at the heart of the Putin state, English-speaking Moscow correspondents are careful about what and how they report.Sensitive areas include references to the alleged personal wealth built up by Putin, any discussion about corruption that is linked to senior government individuals, or any reporting that implies the Kremlin had any prior knowledge of the plot to kill the former spy Alexander Litvinenko.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding which reported that Putin was likely to have known about the planned assassination in the opinion of Washington's top diplomat in Europe because of the Russian prime minister's \"attention to detail\". That report was part of the newspaper's WikiLeaks coverage.Harding may have further irritated the Russians because other newspapers covering the WikiLeaks diplomatic cables opted to farm out the reporting of their contents relating to the country to correspondents based outside the country. He believed it was appropriate to put his name on the Russian WikiLeaks coverage because the authorities would have believed it was he who wrote the material anyway.After the cables were first published, Harding co-authored a book, WikiLeaks: Inside Julian Assange's War on Secrecy, revealing the inside story of the publication of the confidential documents.Harding said: \"I didn't go out to Russia with any particular agenda and I'm sad to leave under these circumstances. But I do not think journalists can accept self-censorship.\"John Kampfner, director of Index on Censorship, said: \"The Russian government's treatment of Luke Harding is petty and vindictive, and evidence \u2013 if more was needed \u2013 of the poor state of free expression in that country.\"The Foreign Office confirmed it had been in contact with its Russian counterparts, \"including through a call from the foreign secretary\". British officials said they were awaiting a reply.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Guardian", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Newspapers & magazines", "Guardian Media Group", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Media", "Freedom of speech", "World news", "Vladimir Putin", "UK news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Guardian's Moscow correspondent expelled from Russia"},{"date": "2011-01-17T20:46:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Why has BP formed a partnership with Rosneft when it has its own Russian subsidiary, TNK-BP?Like all of the oil majors, BP is finding it harder to access new oil and gas reserves. They are either physically difficult to reach (in deep water or contained in oil sands, for example) or are located in countries that are off limits (like most of the Middle East and, increasingly, Russia). BP had hoped that the US would drive future growth but, after the Gulf of Mexico spill, the oil industry faces tougher regulation and it will take years for BP, in particular, to regain trust. Partnering Rosneft gives BP the exclusive right to explore an area in the Russian Arctic the size of the North Sea. Having the Kremlin as a backer is also likely to ward off any unwelcome takeover bids and could blunt any anti-BP backlash in the US.Is this deal risky for BP?Yes. BP has had a rough ride in Russia in the past. In the 90s it lost almost $500m after buying a stake in a company that was seized by the outfit with which BP went on to form TNK-BP. Two years ago, President Putin, left, landed TNK-BP with a \u00a3495m back tax demand, while in 2008, BP's Russian partners ousted Bob Dudley \u2013 now BP group chief executive \u2013 as head of the subsidiary in a struggle for control.Why does Rosneft need BP?BP's reputation has taken a hammering after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, but it still has the expertise that Rosneft and other Russian companies lack to explore for oil and gas in harsh offshore conditions. Rosneft is also likely to be more comfortable dealing with a company such as BP, which is used to operating in Russia, warts and all.What does the alliance mean for TNK-BP?BP is riding roughshod over its agreement with TNK-BP that the British company can pursue opportunities in Russia only via that venture. BP believes its best bet in Russia lies with Rosneft, not TNK-BP. The company insists that the prediction by its top executive in the country, David Peattie, of a Kremlin-backed carve-up of TNK-BP are out of date. But the omens for TNK-BP and its Russian backers do not look good.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "BP oil spill", "Oil", "Environment", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Risks and rewards for BP in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:50:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities either denied entry to or deported more than 40 members of the media between 2000 to 2008, according to statistics from the Moscow-based press freedom group Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations. British journalists who have been denied entry or expelled include:In 1989 Roxburgh was expelled from what was then the Soviet Union while working as Moscow correspondent for the Sunday Times, as tension over the collapse of communism in eastern Europe was reaching its peak. Longtime Russo-phile Roxburgh was expelled by the KGB for supposed \"unacceptable activities\". He was effectively deemed a \"spy\", in a tit for tat expulsion. Within months he was back in Russia \u2013 with the KGB reportedly furious at his swift return \u2013 later covering Moscow's \"August Coup\" for the Guardian in 1991. Roxburgh went on to become the BBC's man in Moscow in the 1990s. In 2006 he was hired as a spin doctor to the Kremlin as part of a team including Tim Allan, the former Labour press officer who founded PR agency Portland, employed to smooth Russia's image ahead of a G8 summit in St Petersburg.In 2006 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied British journalist de Waal an entry visa, citing \"state security\" as its reason. De Waal, who had worked in Moscow for the English-language Moscow Times, the Times and the BBC, had been due to attend the presentation of a Russian version of his book in Nagorno-Karabakh. He believed his ban was a retaliation over critical reporting about the conflict in Chechnya. He wrote the introduction to murdered journalist Anna Politkovskaya's first book in English, A Dirty War.In 2008 British freelance journalist Pirani was refused entry in Moscow and sent back to London, despite having a valid multiple-entry visa, after officials deemed him a security threat. He was not told how exactly he posed a threat, although a trip the year before had involved visiting trade unions and civil rights representatives for interviews relating to a book. Pirani had worked in Russia as a reporter and academic researcher regularly since the 1990s. He is a National Union of Journalists activist who specialises in covering the former Soviet Union.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Russia", "Media", "Press freedom", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "British journalists frozen out of Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-09T21:11:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry has reversed its decision to deport the Guardian's Moscow correspondent, saying that Luke Harding would be granted an extension to his visa to carry on reporting if the newspaper wanted him to.The U-turn came just before a rare visit by Russia's foreign minister to the UK and follows widespread criticism from British politicians of the journalist's removal.Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the ministry, said the country was ready to issue a visa so Harding could \"continue his activity for the amount of time his tenure in Russia has been extended\".On Tuesday Harding had been told that he would only be allowed to return to Russia until his visa expired at the end of May \u2013 with the foreign ministry blaming the journalist for failing to take a press card with him before going abroad.Last weekend Harding was deported when he returned to Russia after a stint in London reporting on the WikiLeaks cables, becoming the first journalist employed by a newspaper or broadcaster to be kicked out of the country since the end of the cold war.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding, based on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables, which reported that the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, was likely to have known about the planned assassination of Alexander Litvinenko because of his \"attention to detail\".The Guardian said: \"We welcome the offer from the Russian foreign ministry to give our Moscow correspondent, Luke Harding, a new visa so he may continue to work in Russia. Luke and the Guardian are now considering the offer very carefully.\"The row has threatened to overshadow the visit of Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, who is due in the UK for a diplomatic visit early next week.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Journalist safety", "Censorship", "Media", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia U-turns over Guardian journalist's deportation"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:16:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Guardian's Moscow correspondent has been expelled from Russia, in what is believed to be the first removal of a British staff journalist from the country since the end of the cold war.Luke Harding's forced departure comes after the newspaper's reporting of the WikiLeaks cables, where he reported on allegations that Russia under the rule of Vladimir Putin had become a \"virtual mafia state\".The journalist flew back to Moscow at the weekend after a two-month stint reporting on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables from London, but was refused entry when his passport was checked on his arrival.After spending 45 minutes in an airport cell, he was sent back to the UK on the first available plane \u2013 with his visa annulled and his passport only returned to him after taking his seat. Harding was given no specific reason for the decision, although an airport security official working for the Federal Border Service, an arm of the FSB intelligence agency, told him: \"For you Russia is closed.\"The tightly controlled nature of Russian politics means the expulsion is likely to have been ordered at a very senior level, but the British government has so far been unable to find out any more details about the decision.William Hague, the foreign secretary, contacted his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Monday afternoon in an effort to establish what had happened. It is understood Lavrov had no explanation to offer, and promised only to look into the matter.Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian editor-in-chief, said: \"This is clearly a very troubling development with serious implications for press freedom, and it is worrying that the Russian government should now kick out reporters of whom they disapprove. Russia's treatment of journalists \u2013 both domestic and foreign \u2013 is a cause of great concern. We are attempting to establish further details, and are in contact with the Foreign Office.\"The last prominent British journalist to be expelled was Sunday Times correspondent Angus Roxburgh, who was kicked out of Russia in 1989 in a \"tit for tat\" expulsion after Margaret Thatcher asked 11 Russian spies to leave London. He returned a few months later after the fall of communism, working for the BBC.Harding's expulsion follows several incidents of harassment amid official disapproval of his coverage. He was briefly detained in April 2010 in Ingushetia after a visit to the troubled the Caucasus region. In May he interviewed the Dagestani father of Mariam Sharipova, a suicide bomber who killed 26 people on the Moscow Metro in March 2010.Although western reporters are not subject to anything like the dangers of some of their Russian counterparts, several of whom have been murdered for delving too deeply into the corruption and mafia nexus at the heart of the Putin state, English-speaking Moscow correspondents are careful about what and how they report.Sensitive areas include references to the alleged personal wealth built up by Putin, any discussion about corruption that is linked to senior government individuals, or any reporting that implies the Kremlin had any prior knowledge of the plot to kill the former spy Alexander Litvinenko.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding which reported that Putin was likely to have known about the planned assassination in the opinion of Washington's top diplomat in Europe because of the Russian prime minister's \"attention to detail\". That report was part of the newspaper's WikiLeaks coverage.Harding may have further irritated the Russians because other newspapers covering the WikiLeaks diplomatic cables opted to farm out the reporting of their contents relating to the country to correspondents based outside the country. He believed it was appropriate to put his name on the Russian WikiLeaks coverage because the authorities would have believed it was he who wrote the material anyway.After the cables were first published, Harding co-authored a book, WikiLeaks: Inside Julian Assange's War on Secrecy, revealing the inside story of the publication of the confidential documents.Harding said: \"I didn't go out to Russia with any particular agenda and I'm sad to leave under these circumstances. But I do not think journalists can accept self-censorship.\"John Kampfner, director of Index on Censorship, said: \"The Russian government's treatment of Luke Harding is petty and vindictive, and evidence \u2013 if more was needed \u2013 of the poor state of free expression in that country.\"The Foreign Office confirmed it had been in contact with its Russian counterparts, \"including through a call from the foreign secretary\". British officials said they were awaiting a reply.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Guardian", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Newspapers & magazines", "Guardian Media Group", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Media", "Freedom of speech", "World news", "Vladimir Putin", "UK news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Guardian's Moscow correspondent expelled from Russia"},{"date": "2011-01-17T20:46:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Why has BP formed a partnership with Rosneft when it has its own Russian subsidiary, TNK-BP?Like all of the oil majors, BP is finding it harder to access new oil and gas reserves. They are either physically difficult to reach (in deep water or contained in oil sands, for example) or are located in countries that are off limits (like most of the Middle East and, increasingly, Russia). BP had hoped that the US would drive future growth but, after the Gulf of Mexico spill, the oil industry faces tougher regulation and it will take years for BP, in particular, to regain trust. Partnering Rosneft gives BP the exclusive right to explore an area in the Russian Arctic the size of the North Sea. Having the Kremlin as a backer is also likely to ward off any unwelcome takeover bids and could blunt any anti-BP backlash in the US.Is this deal risky for BP?Yes. BP has had a rough ride in Russia in the past. In the 90s it lost almost $500m after buying a stake in a company that was seized by the outfit with which BP went on to form TNK-BP. Two years ago, President Putin, left, landed TNK-BP with a \u00a3495m back tax demand, while in 2008, BP's Russian partners ousted Bob Dudley \u2013 now BP group chief executive \u2013 as head of the subsidiary in a struggle for control.Why does Rosneft need BP?BP's reputation has taken a hammering after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, but it still has the expertise that Rosneft and other Russian companies lack to explore for oil and gas in harsh offshore conditions. Rosneft is also likely to be more comfortable dealing with a company such as BP, which is used to operating in Russia, warts and all.What does the alliance mean for TNK-BP?BP is riding roughshod over its agreement with TNK-BP that the British company can pursue opportunities in Russia only via that venture. BP believes its best bet in Russia lies with Rosneft, not TNK-BP. The company insists that the prediction by its top executive in the country, David Peattie, of a Kremlin-backed carve-up of TNK-BP are out of date. But the omens for TNK-BP and its Russian backers do not look good.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "BP oil spill", "Oil", "Environment", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Risks and rewards for BP in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T08:15:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Alexander Lebedev, the owner of The Independent and the London Evening Standard, refused to attend a London conference yesterday because he feared that, if he were to leave Russia, he would not be able to return.Lebedev explained to organisers of the Russian business week forum at the London School of Economics that he risked exile if he were to leave Moscow at present.In his letter, which is posted on his website, Lebedev wrote: \"I am extremely sorry for not being able to attend your forum. Lamentable reason is, of course, the decline of business climate in Russia as attempts of the corrupt law enforcement officers to raid my businesses (National Reserve Bank, airline and potato farming) intensify...\"These circumstances do not allow me currently to leave Moscow - they may provide for me not being let in back. I wish you enlightening discussions and productive exchanges of opinion!\"He concluded with \"regards to Mr Lavrov - his is a tough job.\" This was a reference to the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, who opened yesterday's conference in Lebedev's absence.Last November, Lebedev was present when up to 30 masked and armed police burst into the NRB headquarters in Moscow to confiscate documents. The bank later complained to prosecutors that the raid had been a show of power designed to stop Mr Lebedev complaining about corruption. Lebedev helps to fund the opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta in Moscow, and he has been critical of Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin.Lavrov was heckled after his speech at the opening of the business forum by a protester who demanded the release of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the oil tycoon who is serving 14 years in jail. Sources: Lebedev blog/The Times", "tags": ["Media", "Alexander Lebedev", "Russia", "London School of Economics and Political Science", "Vladimir Putin", "London Evening Standard", "The Independent", "Newspapers", "Press freedom", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Lebedev cancels London visit because he fears exile from Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-12T00:06:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding's expulsion from Russia (Editorial, 8 February) is another sign of the shrinking space for free speech in the country. Russia is becoming synonymous with intimidation of journalists, as well as a spate of murders. It is already the third most deadly country in the world for journalists. Last year Amnesty supported an appeal by Russian journalists to President Medvedev for increased protection, thorough investigations into unsolved attacks, and full implementation of Article 144 of the penal code, which criminalises the obstruction of lawful activity by journalists. Next week the UK hosts a visit by Russia's foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov. Ministers here must tell him that journalists in Russia must be able to do their jobs without fear and without being summarily ejected.Graham JonesRussia country co-ordinator, Amnesty International UK", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Journalism in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T00:01:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The foreign secretary, William Hague, vowed yesterday to seek a patient, steady improvement in relations with Russia. His counterpart Sergei Lavrov then provided at least three reasons why they will remain turbulent. He said western support for the revolutions in Egypt and Tunisia would be counterproductive, that Russia would not support further sanctions on Iran, and that serious disagreements in Russia's bilateral relationship with Britain remained.The list of these disputes never seems to lessen: the latest was the refusal to admit entry to the Guardian's Moscow correspondent on what Mr Lavrov called a technicality. Our correspondent is now back in Moscow after a diplomatic protest was launched. However, the reason for his exclusion was anything but technical. It was because of what he wrote. There are regular spy rows; the shadow of the Litvinenko affair is a long one, and at least 40 people in Britain are wanted by Russia on criminal extradition warrants. The question is tritely posed: if businessmen from the two countries can trade with each other \u2013 the volume of bilateral trade quadrupled over five years \u2013 then why can't their politicians?The two countries certainly have common interests: combating the sort of butchery inflicted by a suicide bomber in the baggage hall of Domodedovo airport is undoubtedly one. But go then to Ali-Yurt, the village in Ingushetia from where that suicide bomber came, and another picture emerges: that of a region seething in anger. What began as a secular insurgency in Chechnya has now been transformed, by the brutality of the security forces' response, into an Islamic rebellion spreading throughout the north Caucasus. The greatest chronicler of this tragedy, the Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, is now dead. Which side should Britain be on? Not an insurgency which uses suicide bombers against civilian targets, but nor should it look the other way when the security forces launch raids on villages like Ali-Yurt which form the subject of appeals to the European court of human rights in Strasbourg.Ms Politkovskaya said Chechnya's fate was Russia's also. Each spelled the death of democracy. In a smaller sense, Britain's relationship with Russia is inseparable, too, from the extent to which cries of misrule resound unanswered in the empty echo chamber of political life in Russia. Wave after wave of \u00e9migr\u00e9s arrives on these shores as a result. The decision to reset relations after the Bush era is among the few US foreign policy initiatives to bear fruit. Britain has no equivalent attraction to offer Russia. Yes, the two governments should talk directly to each other, rather than snarl through proxies, but there may not be much listening done.", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Press freedom", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Britain and Russia: Hotlines and cold words | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:50:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities either denied entry to or deported more than 40 members of the media between 2000 to 2008, according to statistics from the Moscow-based press freedom group Centre for Journalism in Extreme Situations. British journalists who have been denied entry or expelled include:In 1989 Roxburgh was expelled from what was then the Soviet Union while working as Moscow correspondent for the Sunday Times, as tension over the collapse of communism in eastern Europe was reaching its peak. Longtime Russo-phile Roxburgh was expelled by the KGB for supposed \"unacceptable activities\". He was effectively deemed a \"spy\", in a tit for tat expulsion. Within months he was back in Russia \u2013 with the KGB reportedly furious at his swift return \u2013 later covering Moscow's \"August Coup\" for the Guardian in 1991. Roxburgh went on to become the BBC's man in Moscow in the 1990s. In 2006 he was hired as a spin doctor to the Kremlin as part of a team including Tim Allan, the former Labour press officer who founded PR agency Portland, employed to smooth Russia's image ahead of a G8 summit in St Petersburg.In 2006 the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied British journalist de Waal an entry visa, citing \"state security\" as its reason. De Waal, who had worked in Moscow for the English-language Moscow Times, the Times and the BBC, had been due to attend the presentation of a Russian version of his book in Nagorno-Karabakh. He believed his ban was a retaliation over critical reporting about the conflict in Chechnya. He wrote the introduction to murdered journalist Anna Politkovskaya's first book in English, A Dirty War.In 2008 British freelance journalist Pirani was refused entry in Moscow and sent back to London, despite having a valid multiple-entry visa, after officials deemed him a security threat. He was not told how exactly he posed a threat, although a trip the year before had involved visiting trade unions and civil rights representatives for interviews relating to a book. Pirani had worked in Russia as a reporter and academic researcher regularly since the 1990s. He is a National Union of Journalists activist who specialises in covering the former Soviet Union.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Russia", "Media", "Press freedom", "Newspapers", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "British journalists frozen out of Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-09T21:11:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's foreign ministry has reversed its decision to deport the Guardian's Moscow correspondent, saying that Luke Harding would be granted an extension to his visa to carry on reporting if the newspaper wanted him to.The U-turn came just before a rare visit by Russia's foreign minister to the UK and follows widespread criticism from British politicians of the journalist's removal.Alexander Lukashevich, a spokesman for the ministry, said the country was ready to issue a visa so Harding could \"continue his activity for the amount of time his tenure in Russia has been extended\".On Tuesday Harding had been told that he would only be allowed to return to Russia until his visa expired at the end of May \u2013 with the foreign ministry blaming the journalist for failing to take a press card with him before going abroad.Last weekend Harding was deported when he returned to Russia after a stint in London reporting on the WikiLeaks cables, becoming the first journalist employed by a newspaper or broadcaster to be kicked out of the country since the end of the cold war.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding, based on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables, which reported that the prime minister, Vladimir Putin, was likely to have known about the planned assassination of Alexander Litvinenko because of his \"attention to detail\".The Guardian said: \"We welcome the offer from the Russian foreign ministry to give our Moscow correspondent, Luke Harding, a new visa so he may continue to work in Russia. Luke and the Guardian are now considering the offer very carefully.\"The row has threatened to overshadow the visit of Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, who is due in the UK for a diplomatic visit early next week.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Journalist safety", "Censorship", "Media", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia U-turns over Guardian journalist's deportation"},{"date": "2011-02-07T18:16:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Guardian's Moscow correspondent has been expelled from Russia, in what is believed to be the first removal of a British staff journalist from the country since the end of the cold war.Luke Harding's forced departure comes after the newspaper's reporting of the WikiLeaks cables, where he reported on allegations that Russia under the rule of Vladimir Putin had become a \"virtual mafia state\".The journalist flew back to Moscow at the weekend after a two-month stint reporting on the contents of the leaked US diplomatic cables from London, but was refused entry when his passport was checked on his arrival.After spending 45 minutes in an airport cell, he was sent back to the UK on the first available plane \u2013 with his visa annulled and his passport only returned to him after taking his seat. Harding was given no specific reason for the decision, although an airport security official working for the Federal Border Service, an arm of the FSB intelligence agency, told him: \"For you Russia is closed.\"The tightly controlled nature of Russian politics means the expulsion is likely to have been ordered at a very senior level, but the British government has so far been unable to find out any more details about the decision.William Hague, the foreign secretary, contacted his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Monday afternoon in an effort to establish what had happened. It is understood Lavrov had no explanation to offer, and promised only to look into the matter.Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian editor-in-chief, said: \"This is clearly a very troubling development with serious implications for press freedom, and it is worrying that the Russian government should now kick out reporters of whom they disapprove. Russia's treatment of journalists \u2013 both domestic and foreign \u2013 is a cause of great concern. We are attempting to establish further details, and are in contact with the Foreign Office.\"The last prominent British journalist to be expelled was Sunday Times correspondent Angus Roxburgh, who was kicked out of Russia in 1989 in a \"tit for tat\" expulsion after Margaret Thatcher asked 11 Russian spies to leave London. He returned a few months later after the fall of communism, working for the BBC.Harding's expulsion follows several incidents of harassment amid official disapproval of his coverage. He was briefly detained in April 2010 in Ingushetia after a visit to the troubled the Caucasus region. In May he interviewed the Dagestani father of Mariam Sharipova, a suicide bomber who killed 26 people on the Moscow Metro in March 2010.Although western reporters are not subject to anything like the dangers of some of their Russian counterparts, several of whom have been murdered for delving too deeply into the corruption and mafia nexus at the heart of the Putin state, English-speaking Moscow correspondents are careful about what and how they report.Sensitive areas include references to the alleged personal wealth built up by Putin, any discussion about corruption that is linked to senior government individuals, or any reporting that implies the Kremlin had any prior knowledge of the plot to kill the former spy Alexander Litvinenko.In December the Guardian published an article by Harding which reported that Putin was likely to have known about the planned assassination in the opinion of Washington's top diplomat in Europe because of the Russian prime minister's \"attention to detail\". That report was part of the newspaper's WikiLeaks coverage.Harding may have further irritated the Russians because other newspapers covering the WikiLeaks diplomatic cables opted to farm out the reporting of their contents relating to the country to correspondents based outside the country. He believed it was appropriate to put his name on the Russian WikiLeaks coverage because the authorities would have believed it was he who wrote the material anyway.After the cables were first published, Harding co-authored a book, WikiLeaks: Inside Julian Assange's War on Secrecy, revealing the inside story of the publication of the confidential documents.Harding said: \"I didn't go out to Russia with any particular agenda and I'm sad to leave under these circumstances. But I do not think journalists can accept self-censorship.\"John Kampfner, director of Index on Censorship, said: \"The Russian government's treatment of Luke Harding is petty and vindictive, and evidence \u2013 if more was needed \u2013 of the poor state of free expression in that country.\"The Foreign Office confirmed it had been in contact with its Russian counterparts, \"including through a call from the foreign secretary\". British officials said they were awaiting a reply.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Guardian", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Newspapers & magazines", "Guardian Media Group", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Media", "Freedom of speech", "World news", "Vladimir Putin", "UK news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Guardian's Moscow correspondent expelled from Russia"},{"date": "2011-01-17T20:46:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Why has BP formed a partnership with Rosneft when it has its own Russian subsidiary, TNK-BP?Like all of the oil majors, BP is finding it harder to access new oil and gas reserves. They are either physically difficult to reach (in deep water or contained in oil sands, for example) or are located in countries that are off limits (like most of the Middle East and, increasingly, Russia). BP had hoped that the US would drive future growth but, after the Gulf of Mexico spill, the oil industry faces tougher regulation and it will take years for BP, in particular, to regain trust. Partnering Rosneft gives BP the exclusive right to explore an area in the Russian Arctic the size of the North Sea. Having the Kremlin as a backer is also likely to ward off any unwelcome takeover bids and could blunt any anti-BP backlash in the US.Is this deal risky for BP?Yes. BP has had a rough ride in Russia in the past. In the 90s it lost almost $500m after buying a stake in a company that was seized by the outfit with which BP went on to form TNK-BP. Two years ago, President Putin, left, landed TNK-BP with a \u00a3495m back tax demand, while in 2008, BP's Russian partners ousted Bob Dudley \u2013 now BP group chief executive \u2013 as head of the subsidiary in a struggle for control.Why does Rosneft need BP?BP's reputation has taken a hammering after the Deepwater Horizon disaster, but it still has the expertise that Rosneft and other Russian companies lack to explore for oil and gas in harsh offshore conditions. Rosneft is also likely to be more comfortable dealing with a company such as BP, which is used to operating in Russia, warts and all.What does the alliance mean for TNK-BP?BP is riding roughshod over its agreement with TNK-BP that the British company can pursue opportunities in Russia only via that venture. BP believes its best bet in Russia lies with Rosneft, not TNK-BP. The company insists that the prediction by its top executive in the country, David Peattie, of a Kremlin-backed carve-up of TNK-BP are out of date. But the omens for TNK-BP and its Russian backers do not look good.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "BP oil spill", "Oil", "Environment", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Risks and rewards for BP in Russia"},{"date": "2011-02-16T08:15:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Alexander Lebedev, the owner of The Independent and the London Evening Standard, refused to attend a London conference yesterday because he feared that, if he were to leave Russia, he would not be able to return.Lebedev explained to organisers of the Russian business week forum at the London School of Economics that he risked exile if he were to leave Moscow at present.In his letter, which is posted on his website, Lebedev wrote: \"I am extremely sorry for not being able to attend your forum. Lamentable reason is, of course, the decline of business climate in Russia as attempts of the corrupt law enforcement officers to raid my businesses (National Reserve Bank, airline and potato farming) intensify...\"These circumstances do not allow me currently to leave Moscow - they may provide for me not being let in back. I wish you enlightening discussions and productive exchanges of opinion!\"He concluded with \"regards to Mr Lavrov - his is a tough job.\" This was a reference to the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, who opened yesterday's conference in Lebedev's absence.Last November, Lebedev was present when up to 30 masked and armed police burst into the NRB headquarters in Moscow to confiscate documents. The bank later complained to prosecutors that the raid had been a show of power designed to stop Mr Lebedev complaining about corruption. Lebedev helps to fund the opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta in Moscow, and he has been critical of Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin.Lavrov was heckled after his speech at the opening of the business forum by a protester who demanded the release of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the oil tycoon who is serving 14 years in jail. Sources: Lebedev blog/The Times", "tags": ["Media", "Alexander Lebedev", "Russia", "London School of Economics and Political Science", "Vladimir Putin", "London Evening Standard", "The Independent", "Newspapers", "Press freedom", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Lebedev cancels London visit because he fears exile from Russia"},{"date": "2011-01-10T17:11:19Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The jailing of several leading opposition figures, including former deputy prime minister Boris Nemtsov, has hammered another large nail into the coffin of free expression in Russia, human rights activists and foreign observers say. Exactly how David Cameron will justify his visit to Russia later this year is hard to see at this point. Cheap energy and investment are important. But affording undeserved respectability to an increasingly repressive, authoritarian and undemocratic regime may be judged too costly.William Hague, the foreign secretary, made the best of a bad situation in Moscow in October, holding talks with Russia's president, Dmitry Medvedev, a prominent though timid proponent of reform. Cameron's invitation came a month later, when Medvedev met him at the G20 summit in Seoul. Although reportedly caught off-guard, the PM reacted positively: \"We have both agreed we want to strengthen the bilateral relationship. I'm very pleased to take up the invitation of a visit to Russia next year.\"But diplomatic pleasantries, echoing US efforts to \"reset\" relations with Moscow, cannot conceal ongoing, deep bilateral disagreements. The most notorious is the unresolved poison murder in London in 2006 of Alexander Litvinenko. Britain has sought the extradition of the chief suspect, Alexander Lugovoi, a former KGB officer. Russia has refused point blank. Hague admitted in Moscow that \"serious differences\" on this and other issues remained.Since then, matters have only got worse. Each country expelled a diplomat last month for alleged spying, after British security sources pointed to a \"huge Russian intelligence operation in the UK\". That spat coincided with an even bigger row \u2013 over Britain's sharp criticism of the show trial of former oil tycoon, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, an arch opponent of Russia's prime minister and self-styled strongman, Vladimir Putin.Condemnation rained down at home and abroad. Lev Ponomarev, a Russian human rights activist, said: \"We see how, with the obscenity of despair, the Russian justice system time and time again fabricates charges and carelessly sends behind bars those whom the authorities consider dangerous.\" Hague took the cue: \"I am deeply concerned by the implications \u2026 for confidence in how the law is applied in Russia,\" he said. Putin brusquely dismissed all the criticism as interference in Russia's sovereign affairs.Nemtsov, once an establishment politician who now co-chairs the Solidarity opposition movement, added his voice to the protests at a New Year's Eve demonstration in Moscow upholding free expression. The response was swift. Anxious perhaps to dispel any impression he was abashed by the Khodorkovsky uproar, Putin sent in the heavies. Nemtsov was arrested and jailed for 15 days for \"disobeying police\". Three other opposition leaders \u2013 Eduard Limonov, Konstantin Kosyakin and Ilya Yashin \u2013 were also incarcerated.Street protests against the jailings have been occurring daily ever since, and each day, more protesters are detained. Objections lodged by Anatoly Chubais, deputy prime minister under former president Boris Yeltsin, and Serge Mitrokhin, head of the liberal Yabloko party, who called the sentences politically motivated, have been ignored. So, too, has a US statement stressing \"the importance of embracing and protecting universal values including freedom of expression and assembly\". Now plans are afoot for another big demonstration on 15 January, when Nemtsov is due for release. Even bigger clashes could result.So far, Britain has kept quiet about this latest disturbing manifestation of Putin's ever more menacing police state. This daunting apparatus was reinforced last summer when the powers of the FSB secret police were greatly expanded. Then came Putin's October green light to the police to \"crack heads with batons\" if people protested without permission. But David Clark, chairman of the Russia Foundation, warned that western countries may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the pretence of normal relations with Russia.\"The new brazenness in the way Putin is behaving is extremely worrying,\" Clark said. The drop in Russia's oil export income in 2008-9 and the outcry over the Georgia war had briefly restrained Russian behaviour and fed hopes of reform. But those hopes were fading now, he said. The justice and human rights situation was deteriorating again \u2013 and it was possible opposition parties would be barred from this year's parliamentary elections.\"Putin is gambling that western politicians are too weak and western investors too greedy to stand up to him. They should prove him wrong,\" the Economist commented last week. \"The West should recognise this marks a new, more repressive phase of Putin's rule \u2026 If Russia continues to act in this way, it should be chucked out of the G8.\" Likewise, Cameron should cancel his visit.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Protest", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "David Cameron should strike repressive Russia off his itinerary | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T01:19:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 44 people have been killed after a passenger jet crashed in north-west Russia, a government spokesman said.The plane, reportedly carrying 52 people, including nine crew, crashed half a mile from the runway outside the northern city of Petrozavodsk at about 11.40pm local time on Monday. News agencies reported that eight people who survived the crash were seriously injured and taken to hospital.There was no immediate explanation for the crash, but the Interfax news agency quoted the airport director Alexei Kuzmitsky as saying there were \"unfavourable weather conditions\".The plane, a Russian-made Tu-134 jet, reportedly crashed on its final approach to the airport in Petrozavodsk, landing a few hundred yards short of the runway. Petrozavodsk is in the in the province of Karelia, 640km (400 miles) north-west of Moscow.News agencies reported that Russian Premier League football referee Vladimir Pettaya was among the victims, as well as one Swedish national.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Plane crashes", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia plane crash kills at least 44"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T01:19:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 44 people have been killed after a passenger jet crashed in north-west Russia, a government spokesman said.The plane, reportedly carrying 52 people, including nine crew, crashed half a mile from the runway outside the northern city of Petrozavodsk at about 11.40pm local time on Monday. News agencies reported that eight people who survived the crash were seriously injured and taken to hospital.There was no immediate explanation for the crash, but the Interfax news agency quoted the airport director Alexei Kuzmitsky as saying there were \"unfavourable weather conditions\".The plane, a Russian-made Tu-134 jet, reportedly crashed on its final approach to the airport in Petrozavodsk, landing a few hundred yards short of the runway. Petrozavodsk is in the in the province of Karelia, 640km (400 miles) north-west of Moscow.News agencies reported that Russian Premier League football referee Vladimir Pettaya was among the victims, as well as one Swedish national.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Plane crashes", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia plane crash kills at least 44"},{"date": "2011-06-07T12:59:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The organisers of the 2014 winter Olympics in the Russian resort city of Sochi last month appointed EF Education First, the Swiss-based language training provider, as the official supplier of language training for the event, with the task of teaching English to up to 70,000 Olympic staff, volunteers and tourist-sector workers.Work is already under way to build stadiums and transport infrastructure from scratch in the coastal city and neighbouring alpine resort. But with the games expected to attract tens of thousands of international visitors the organisers must now ensure that language is not a final barrier to success.English will be the lingua franca of the games, not only among officials and athletes but also on the streets of Sochi, a city that hopes to make its mark on the international tourist map. But with the 1,000-day countdown to the opening of the games in February 2014 now started, the challenge of turning everyone from trackside judges to city taxi drivers into confident users of English is daunting.According to Bernard Shearer, head of EF in Russia, his company has a proven track record in delivering large-scale English programmes.EF links to the Olympics date back to the 1988 games in Seoul, and more recently it was responsible for training 6,000 Olympic officials in advance of the Beijing games in 2008.It was contracted to train up to 60,000 staff in the build up to the 2010 Asian games in Guanghzou, China, and it is currently working with Brazil's ministry of tourism to deliver English and Spanish training through the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme to 80,000 people a year working in the hospitality sector in preparation for the 2014 football World Cup.EF kicked off its campaign for the Sochi games last month with the launch of a website offering daily English lessons and winter Olympics-themed vocabulary.From 2012 it will launch dedicated English language teaching for 7,500 Sochi 2014 organising committee staff, 25,000 volunteers, to be recruited from across Russia and up to 35,000 suppliers and contractors.EF opened its first language school in Russia in the mid-1990s and now has 33 schools in 11 cities. But Shearer says that it would be impossible to achieve its target through face-to-face teaching alone.\"The biggest challenge for us is geography. We are dealing with 25,000 volunteers spread across Russia's nine time zones,\" he said.So most of the teaching will be delivered online through EF's establish web portal Englishtown. Learners will be able to log on to the standard Englishtown lessons to develop general English communication skills and access additional specialist language depending on their roles.\"We are at an early stage of the project in terms of establishing the language profiles of the staff,\" Shearer said. But he anticipates that most users will need to focus on general communication skills.\"We found that Olympic judges in Beijing needed general communication skills. They needed to work on their technical language in English, but at least they had the platform of being able to understand that core language.\"Svetlana Ter-Minasova, dean of modern languages at Moscow State University and one of Russia's leading ELT experts, is optimistic about EF's involvement in the Sochi 2014 Olympic programme and thinks that younger learners especially will benefit from the quality of EF content.\"There is huge demand for English among young people but it exceeds the supply of good quality teaching,\" she said.Of the optional foreign languages in the state school curriculum English is by far the most popular, she says, but recent education reforms have meant that raising standards of teaching and materials has not been a priority.EF's focus on online training could be a test of stamina for Olympic learners. Shearer admits that awareness of the internet as a medium for learning remains low in Russia.\"People still have an outdated understanding of distance learning via the internet. But our online school has developed enormously, with live teachers available 24 hours a day and mobile technology. We now have to communicate that message to the public.\"In Brazil, the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme combines online lessons with face-to-face learning in training hubs in 11 cities. But Graeme Hodgson, a former director of ELT at the British Council in Brazil, who now works for the Cultura Inglesa language schools chain, says that the World Cup has created a new niche of students in the service sector who want rapid acquisition of basic spoken communication skills.\"I'm not convinced people will have either the motivation or the time to go to face-to-face sessions, nor indeed is the track record of fully online courses very good, with dropout rates often reaching 60 or 70%,\" Hodgson said.It also remains to be seen whether the organisers of the Sochi games, even with EF's help, will be able to generate and sustain the level of English language learning that has preceded recent major sporting events in China such as the Beijing Olympics.Bob Adamson of Hong Kong's Institute of Education says those government-led campaigns helped to boost the status of spoken English.\"They contributed to the perception that English is a high status language in China \u2013 a language that can provide access to economic resources and social mobility,\" Adamson said.But the lasting impact on skills levels of China's pre-event training is questionable, says Brendan O'Kane, a US linguist and long-term resident of Beijing.\"A lot of training was targeted at people in the service industry, especially cab drivers. My sense is that very little of that training stuck. Once the Olympics were over things went back to normal,\" O'Kane said.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Russia", "South and Central Asia", "Winter Olympics 2014", "Olympics"], "title": "Russia in race for Olympic English"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T01:19:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 44 people have been killed after a passenger jet crashed in north-west Russia, a government spokesman said.The plane, reportedly carrying 52 people, including nine crew, crashed half a mile from the runway outside the northern city of Petrozavodsk at about 11.40pm local time on Monday. News agencies reported that eight people who survived the crash were seriously injured and taken to hospital.There was no immediate explanation for the crash, but the Interfax news agency quoted the airport director Alexei Kuzmitsky as saying there were \"unfavourable weather conditions\".The plane, a Russian-made Tu-134 jet, reportedly crashed on its final approach to the airport in Petrozavodsk, landing a few hundred yards short of the runway. Petrozavodsk is in the in the province of Karelia, 640km (400 miles) north-west of Moscow.News agencies reported that Russian Premier League football referee Vladimir Pettaya was among the victims, as well as one Swedish national.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Plane crashes", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia plane crash kills at least 44"},{"date": "2011-06-07T12:59:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The organisers of the 2014 winter Olympics in the Russian resort city of Sochi last month appointed EF Education First, the Swiss-based language training provider, as the official supplier of language training for the event, with the task of teaching English to up to 70,000 Olympic staff, volunteers and tourist-sector workers.Work is already under way to build stadiums and transport infrastructure from scratch in the coastal city and neighbouring alpine resort. But with the games expected to attract tens of thousands of international visitors the organisers must now ensure that language is not a final barrier to success.English will be the lingua franca of the games, not only among officials and athletes but also on the streets of Sochi, a city that hopes to make its mark on the international tourist map. But with the 1,000-day countdown to the opening of the games in February 2014 now started, the challenge of turning everyone from trackside judges to city taxi drivers into confident users of English is daunting.According to Bernard Shearer, head of EF in Russia, his company has a proven track record in delivering large-scale English programmes.EF links to the Olympics date back to the 1988 games in Seoul, and more recently it was responsible for training 6,000 Olympic officials in advance of the Beijing games in 2008.It was contracted to train up to 60,000 staff in the build up to the 2010 Asian games in Guanghzou, China, and it is currently working with Brazil's ministry of tourism to deliver English and Spanish training through the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme to 80,000 people a year working in the hospitality sector in preparation for the 2014 football World Cup.EF kicked off its campaign for the Sochi games last month with the launch of a website offering daily English lessons and winter Olympics-themed vocabulary.From 2012 it will launch dedicated English language teaching for 7,500 Sochi 2014 organising committee staff, 25,000 volunteers, to be recruited from across Russia and up to 35,000 suppliers and contractors.EF opened its first language school in Russia in the mid-1990s and now has 33 schools in 11 cities. But Shearer says that it would be impossible to achieve its target through face-to-face teaching alone.\"The biggest challenge for us is geography. We are dealing with 25,000 volunteers spread across Russia's nine time zones,\" he said.So most of the teaching will be delivered online through EF's establish web portal Englishtown. Learners will be able to log on to the standard Englishtown lessons to develop general English communication skills and access additional specialist language depending on their roles.\"We are at an early stage of the project in terms of establishing the language profiles of the staff,\" Shearer said. But he anticipates that most users will need to focus on general communication skills.\"We found that Olympic judges in Beijing needed general communication skills. They needed to work on their technical language in English, but at least they had the platform of being able to understand that core language.\"Svetlana Ter-Minasova, dean of modern languages at Moscow State University and one of Russia's leading ELT experts, is optimistic about EF's involvement in the Sochi 2014 Olympic programme and thinks that younger learners especially will benefit from the quality of EF content.\"There is huge demand for English among young people but it exceeds the supply of good quality teaching,\" she said.Of the optional foreign languages in the state school curriculum English is by far the most popular, she says, but recent education reforms have meant that raising standards of teaching and materials has not been a priority.EF's focus on online training could be a test of stamina for Olympic learners. Shearer admits that awareness of the internet as a medium for learning remains low in Russia.\"People still have an outdated understanding of distance learning via the internet. But our online school has developed enormously, with live teachers available 24 hours a day and mobile technology. We now have to communicate that message to the public.\"In Brazil, the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme combines online lessons with face-to-face learning in training hubs in 11 cities. But Graeme Hodgson, a former director of ELT at the British Council in Brazil, who now works for the Cultura Inglesa language schools chain, says that the World Cup has created a new niche of students in the service sector who want rapid acquisition of basic spoken communication skills.\"I'm not convinced people will have either the motivation or the time to go to face-to-face sessions, nor indeed is the track record of fully online courses very good, with dropout rates often reaching 60 or 70%,\" Hodgson said.It also remains to be seen whether the organisers of the Sochi games, even with EF's help, will be able to generate and sustain the level of English language learning that has preceded recent major sporting events in China such as the Beijing Olympics.Bob Adamson of Hong Kong's Institute of Education says those government-led campaigns helped to boost the status of spoken English.\"They contributed to the perception that English is a high status language in China \u2013 a language that can provide access to economic resources and social mobility,\" Adamson said.But the lasting impact on skills levels of China's pre-event training is questionable, says Brendan O'Kane, a US linguist and long-term resident of Beijing.\"A lot of training was targeted at people in the service industry, especially cab drivers. My sense is that very little of that training stuck. Once the Olympics were over things went back to normal,\" O'Kane said.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Russia", "South and Central Asia", "Winter Olympics 2014", "Olympics"], "title": "Russia in race for Olympic English"},{"date": "2011-06-30T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If we can begin with a sweeping generalisation, American science-fiction movies are usually distinguished by a fast pace that gets faster and ends with an enormous bang. Not all: George Lucas's THX\u00a01138 and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A\u00a0Space Odyssey are different. But these are exceptional even within those directors' work: Lucas's other sci-fi films being fast-moving toy-operas, while\u00a0Kubrick's Doctor Strangelove and Clockwork Orange are relentless in their irony and forward movement.Partially, I think, this is because US sci-fi films were born of very low budgets in the 1950s, in the hands of independents such as Jack Arnold. They were often parables about the danger of nuclear testing, which caused men to shrink, or ants to grow giant, or prehistoric sea-beasts to carry off swimsuited girls. Films such as Creature from the Black Lagoon and Them! relied on visual effects, but those effects were pretty cheesy, and couldn't be on screen for long \u2013 so, cut to the scientist and his daughter, and on to the explosion.2001 is, by contrast, famously slow-paced and enigmatic. Its meaning remains unclear four decades on, and it still resembles its own seamless monolith, \"its origin and purpose a total mystery\". In its pace, its attention to the mechanical detail of space flight, and its memorable computer, 2001 is, in some ways, the perfect Russian science-fiction film.I say this because many film enthusiasts will have seen the film the Russians actually made, Tarkovsky's Solaris. It is an extraordinary film: not as fine as Kubrick's in its special effects, but much more complex in its depiction of human beings captured by aliens and placed in an imaginary world based on an incomplete understanding of their memories. 2001 is about the big picture \u2013 the great gas planets turning, the vast space station wheeling around Earth \u2013 while Solaris deals with little things, like why a man can't undo his wife's dress, or why it's raining indoors.Now we have a unique chance to view some less familiar artefacts from another world, via the BFI Southbank's celebration of Eastern Bloc science fiction. Strangest of these is the 1924 silent Aelita: Queen of Mars, in which the human pastime of kissing creates turmoil on the red planet.But it was the Gagarin space launch that triggered a profusion of Soviet-era social dramas with a cosmic backdrop. The Russians may have dropped out of the race for the moon, but their cinema took up the slack. Here, space missions of the boldest kind were launched, and a flourishing film industry united to promote man's destiny among the stars.Both Silent Star (1959) and Planet of Storms (1962) depict missions to Venus in this heroic vein. Each features a cast of cosmonauts, male and female, and a cute robot \u2013 inspired by Robby the adorable android from Forbidden Planet. These are mainstream adventure movies, yet each is pessimistic in a very fundamental way.The East-German-Polish co-production Silent Star, based on a Stanislaw Lem novel, tells the story of a multi-racial, United World Government space mission to find intelligent life on Earth's sister planet. Thus described, it sounds like one of those Japanese movies such as The Mysterians \u2013 but it's more complex and morally ambiguous. Just before the ship is about to land on Venus, the cosmonauts learn of a Venusian plan to destroy life on Earth. Unable to contact home, they carry on with the mission rather than return to Earth and warn humankind. Luckily, it turns out the Venusians have destroyed themselves by over-weaponising their fragile planet. Silent Star's images of melted cities and crystallised forests, overhung by swirling clouds of gas, are masterpieces of production design. The scene in which three cosmonauts are menaced, halfway up a miniature Tower of Babel, by an encroaching sea of sludge may not entirely convince, but it is still a heck of a thing to see.Planet of Storms is a Russian version of these same events, beginning with a shot of three immaculate Soviet spacecraft nearing Venus \u2013 one of which is immediately atomised by a passing meteor. The surviving cosmonauts, though grief-stricken, elect to press on to Venus at great risk. We then embark on a surprisingly madcap story of interplanetary exploration. There are giant carnivorous plants, man-size dinosaurs and octopus things. The cute robot fells trees and plays big band music. And in its final minutes, Planet of Storms takes an extraordinary turn. It turns out there is intelligent life on Venus after all, which is revealed in a clever and surprising way. I shall not spoil the secret, but it's worth the wait.Planet of Storms had an unfortunate subsequent history. It was bought for US distribution by Roger Corman, who proceeded to cut it up and use the pieces for two other films, an act of cinematic cannibalism that gave us Curtis Harrington's Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet and Peter Bogdanovich's equally classic Voyage to the Planet of Prehistoric Women.\u00a0So it's good to see at last what director Pavel Klushantsev intended.By the early 1960s some conventions for Soviet sci-fi movies had developed: in\u00a0addition to the space mission and the cute robot, the spaceship was always run by a computer; one cosmonaut had to\u00a0keep\u00a0a log book. Jindrich Pol\u00e1k's Icarus XB 1 (also\u00a0known as Voyage to the End of\u00a0the Universe) uses every one of these conventions \u2013 yet this Czech movie remains one of the most original and exciting science fiction fims ever made.Immaculately filmed in black-and-white Cinemascope, it is beautiful and austere. The effects are second to none: Kubrick and his visual effects genius Wally Veevers must have seen it and analysed its\u00a0models and matte shots before making 2001. But there is far more to Icarus than special effects. Adapted from another Lem novel, The Magellanic Cloud, the film is packed with sublime moments unlike those of any film preceding it.Four months into Icarus' mission, morale almost collapses. The crew cease to go to the gym. The solution \u2013 a formal dance, with white dinner jackets and dresses. The event pulls the crew together, as they drink and take 21st-century drugs, and the dancing is wonderful: hip, formal, sexy and strange. The cosmonauts' soiree is interrupted by\u00a0the arrival of a derelict spacecraft, inhabited by something so strange I can only say it seems to have drifted in from a\u00a0Bu\u00f1uel film, and is both chilling and entirely appropriate.And the film gets better. Radiation poison from a dark star nearly kills the crew. One goes mad (yes, Icarus anticipates Solaris, too). Yet the outcome of this strange sleeping sickness is splendid: perhaps the best finale of any science-fiction film, ever. Like all the other films here, it is a visual experience to revel in.All of these films have merit. But Icarus XB-1 is something else again: a game-changing film that profoundly influenced the genre and showed that science-fiction movies weren't only about special effects; they were also high art. Of the hardest and most admirable kind.\u2022 Kosmos, a season of Soviet sci-fi films starts on 1 July at the BFI Southbank, and runs until 31 August. bfi.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "World cinema", "BFI"], "title": "Rockets from Russia: great Eastern Bloc science-fiction films"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T01:19:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 44 people have been killed after a passenger jet crashed in north-west Russia, a government spokesman said.The plane, reportedly carrying 52 people, including nine crew, crashed half a mile from the runway outside the northern city of Petrozavodsk at about 11.40pm local time on Monday. News agencies reported that eight people who survived the crash were seriously injured and taken to hospital.There was no immediate explanation for the crash, but the Interfax news agency quoted the airport director Alexei Kuzmitsky as saying there were \"unfavourable weather conditions\".The plane, a Russian-made Tu-134 jet, reportedly crashed on its final approach to the airport in Petrozavodsk, landing a few hundred yards short of the runway. Petrozavodsk is in the in the province of Karelia, 640km (400 miles) north-west of Moscow.News agencies reported that Russian Premier League football referee Vladimir Pettaya was among the victims, as well as one Swedish national.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Plane crashes", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia plane crash kills at least 44"},{"date": "2011-06-07T12:59:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The organisers of the 2014 winter Olympics in the Russian resort city of Sochi last month appointed EF Education First, the Swiss-based language training provider, as the official supplier of language training for the event, with the task of teaching English to up to 70,000 Olympic staff, volunteers and tourist-sector workers.Work is already under way to build stadiums and transport infrastructure from scratch in the coastal city and neighbouring alpine resort. But with the games expected to attract tens of thousands of international visitors the organisers must now ensure that language is not a final barrier to success.English will be the lingua franca of the games, not only among officials and athletes but also on the streets of Sochi, a city that hopes to make its mark on the international tourist map. But with the 1,000-day countdown to the opening of the games in February 2014 now started, the challenge of turning everyone from trackside judges to city taxi drivers into confident users of English is daunting.According to Bernard Shearer, head of EF in Russia, his company has a proven track record in delivering large-scale English programmes.EF links to the Olympics date back to the 1988 games in Seoul, and more recently it was responsible for training 6,000 Olympic officials in advance of the Beijing games in 2008.It was contracted to train up to 60,000 staff in the build up to the 2010 Asian games in Guanghzou, China, and it is currently working with Brazil's ministry of tourism to deliver English and Spanish training through the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme to 80,000 people a year working in the hospitality sector in preparation for the 2014 football World Cup.EF kicked off its campaign for the Sochi games last month with the launch of a website offering daily English lessons and winter Olympics-themed vocabulary.From 2012 it will launch dedicated English language teaching for 7,500 Sochi 2014 organising committee staff, 25,000 volunteers, to be recruited from across Russia and up to 35,000 suppliers and contractors.EF opened its first language school in Russia in the mid-1990s and now has 33 schools in 11 cities. But Shearer says that it would be impossible to achieve its target through face-to-face teaching alone.\"The biggest challenge for us is geography. We are dealing with 25,000 volunteers spread across Russia's nine time zones,\" he said.So most of the teaching will be delivered online through EF's establish web portal Englishtown. Learners will be able to log on to the standard Englishtown lessons to develop general English communication skills and access additional specialist language depending on their roles.\"We are at an early stage of the project in terms of establishing the language profiles of the staff,\" Shearer said. But he anticipates that most users will need to focus on general communication skills.\"We found that Olympic judges in Beijing needed general communication skills. They needed to work on their technical language in English, but at least they had the platform of being able to understand that core language.\"Svetlana Ter-Minasova, dean of modern languages at Moscow State University and one of Russia's leading ELT experts, is optimistic about EF's involvement in the Sochi 2014 Olympic programme and thinks that younger learners especially will benefit from the quality of EF content.\"There is huge demand for English among young people but it exceeds the supply of good quality teaching,\" she said.Of the optional foreign languages in the state school curriculum English is by far the most popular, she says, but recent education reforms have meant that raising standards of teaching and materials has not been a priority.EF's focus on online training could be a test of stamina for Olympic learners. Shearer admits that awareness of the internet as a medium for learning remains low in Russia.\"People still have an outdated understanding of distance learning via the internet. But our online school has developed enormously, with live teachers available 24 hours a day and mobile technology. We now have to communicate that message to the public.\"In Brazil, the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme combines online lessons with face-to-face learning in training hubs in 11 cities. But Graeme Hodgson, a former director of ELT at the British Council in Brazil, who now works for the Cultura Inglesa language schools chain, says that the World Cup has created a new niche of students in the service sector who want rapid acquisition of basic spoken communication skills.\"I'm not convinced people will have either the motivation or the time to go to face-to-face sessions, nor indeed is the track record of fully online courses very good, with dropout rates often reaching 60 or 70%,\" Hodgson said.It also remains to be seen whether the organisers of the Sochi games, even with EF's help, will be able to generate and sustain the level of English language learning that has preceded recent major sporting events in China such as the Beijing Olympics.Bob Adamson of Hong Kong's Institute of Education says those government-led campaigns helped to boost the status of spoken English.\"They contributed to the perception that English is a high status language in China \u2013 a language that can provide access to economic resources and social mobility,\" Adamson said.But the lasting impact on skills levels of China's pre-event training is questionable, says Brendan O'Kane, a US linguist and long-term resident of Beijing.\"A lot of training was targeted at people in the service industry, especially cab drivers. My sense is that very little of that training stuck. Once the Olympics were over things went back to normal,\" O'Kane said.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Russia", "South and Central Asia", "Winter Olympics 2014", "Olympics"], "title": "Russia in race for Olympic English"},{"date": "2011-06-30T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If we can begin with a sweeping generalisation, American science-fiction movies are usually distinguished by a fast pace that gets faster and ends with an enormous bang. Not all: George Lucas's THX\u00a01138 and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A\u00a0Space Odyssey are different. But these are exceptional even within those directors' work: Lucas's other sci-fi films being fast-moving toy-operas, while\u00a0Kubrick's Doctor Strangelove and Clockwork Orange are relentless in their irony and forward movement.Partially, I think, this is because US sci-fi films were born of very low budgets in the 1950s, in the hands of independents such as Jack Arnold. They were often parables about the danger of nuclear testing, which caused men to shrink, or ants to grow giant, or prehistoric sea-beasts to carry off swimsuited girls. Films such as Creature from the Black Lagoon and Them! relied on visual effects, but those effects were pretty cheesy, and couldn't be on screen for long \u2013 so, cut to the scientist and his daughter, and on to the explosion.2001 is, by contrast, famously slow-paced and enigmatic. Its meaning remains unclear four decades on, and it still resembles its own seamless monolith, \"its origin and purpose a total mystery\". In its pace, its attention to the mechanical detail of space flight, and its memorable computer, 2001 is, in some ways, the perfect Russian science-fiction film.I say this because many film enthusiasts will have seen the film the Russians actually made, Tarkovsky's Solaris. It is an extraordinary film: not as fine as Kubrick's in its special effects, but much more complex in its depiction of human beings captured by aliens and placed in an imaginary world based on an incomplete understanding of their memories. 2001 is about the big picture \u2013 the great gas planets turning, the vast space station wheeling around Earth \u2013 while Solaris deals with little things, like why a man can't undo his wife's dress, or why it's raining indoors.Now we have a unique chance to view some less familiar artefacts from another world, via the BFI Southbank's celebration of Eastern Bloc science fiction. Strangest of these is the 1924 silent Aelita: Queen of Mars, in which the human pastime of kissing creates turmoil on the red planet.But it was the Gagarin space launch that triggered a profusion of Soviet-era social dramas with a cosmic backdrop. The Russians may have dropped out of the race for the moon, but their cinema took up the slack. Here, space missions of the boldest kind were launched, and a flourishing film industry united to promote man's destiny among the stars.Both Silent Star (1959) and Planet of Storms (1962) depict missions to Venus in this heroic vein. Each features a cast of cosmonauts, male and female, and a cute robot \u2013 inspired by Robby the adorable android from Forbidden Planet. These are mainstream adventure movies, yet each is pessimistic in a very fundamental way.The East-German-Polish co-production Silent Star, based on a Stanislaw Lem novel, tells the story of a multi-racial, United World Government space mission to find intelligent life on Earth's sister planet. Thus described, it sounds like one of those Japanese movies such as The Mysterians \u2013 but it's more complex and morally ambiguous. Just before the ship is about to land on Venus, the cosmonauts learn of a Venusian plan to destroy life on Earth. Unable to contact home, they carry on with the mission rather than return to Earth and warn humankind. Luckily, it turns out the Venusians have destroyed themselves by over-weaponising their fragile planet. Silent Star's images of melted cities and crystallised forests, overhung by swirling clouds of gas, are masterpieces of production design. The scene in which three cosmonauts are menaced, halfway up a miniature Tower of Babel, by an encroaching sea of sludge may not entirely convince, but it is still a heck of a thing to see.Planet of Storms is a Russian version of these same events, beginning with a shot of three immaculate Soviet spacecraft nearing Venus \u2013 one of which is immediately atomised by a passing meteor. The surviving cosmonauts, though grief-stricken, elect to press on to Venus at great risk. We then embark on a surprisingly madcap story of interplanetary exploration. There are giant carnivorous plants, man-size dinosaurs and octopus things. The cute robot fells trees and plays big band music. And in its final minutes, Planet of Storms takes an extraordinary turn. It turns out there is intelligent life on Venus after all, which is revealed in a clever and surprising way. I shall not spoil the secret, but it's worth the wait.Planet of Storms had an unfortunate subsequent history. It was bought for US distribution by Roger Corman, who proceeded to cut it up and use the pieces for two other films, an act of cinematic cannibalism that gave us Curtis Harrington's Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet and Peter Bogdanovich's equally classic Voyage to the Planet of Prehistoric Women.\u00a0So it's good to see at last what director Pavel Klushantsev intended.By the early 1960s some conventions for Soviet sci-fi movies had developed: in\u00a0addition to the space mission and the cute robot, the spaceship was always run by a computer; one cosmonaut had to\u00a0keep\u00a0a log book. Jindrich Pol\u00e1k's Icarus XB 1 (also\u00a0known as Voyage to the End of\u00a0the Universe) uses every one of these conventions \u2013 yet this Czech movie remains one of the most original and exciting science fiction fims ever made.Immaculately filmed in black-and-white Cinemascope, it is beautiful and austere. The effects are second to none: Kubrick and his visual effects genius Wally Veevers must have seen it and analysed its\u00a0models and matte shots before making 2001. But there is far more to Icarus than special effects. Adapted from another Lem novel, The Magellanic Cloud, the film is packed with sublime moments unlike those of any film preceding it.Four months into Icarus' mission, morale almost collapses. The crew cease to go to the gym. The solution \u2013 a formal dance, with white dinner jackets and dresses. The event pulls the crew together, as they drink and take 21st-century drugs, and the dancing is wonderful: hip, formal, sexy and strange. The cosmonauts' soiree is interrupted by\u00a0the arrival of a derelict spacecraft, inhabited by something so strange I can only say it seems to have drifted in from a\u00a0Bu\u00f1uel film, and is both chilling and entirely appropriate.And the film gets better. Radiation poison from a dark star nearly kills the crew. One goes mad (yes, Icarus anticipates Solaris, too). Yet the outcome of this strange sleeping sickness is splendid: perhaps the best finale of any science-fiction film, ever. Like all the other films here, it is a visual experience to revel in.All of these films have merit. But Icarus XB-1 is something else again: a game-changing film that profoundly influenced the genre and showed that science-fiction movies weren't only about special effects; they were also high art. Of the hardest and most admirable kind.\u2022 Kosmos, a season of Soviet sci-fi films starts on 1 July at the BFI Southbank, and runs until 31 August. bfi.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "World cinema", "BFI"], "title": "Rockets from Russia: great Eastern Bloc science-fiction films"},{"date": "2011-06-23T14:14:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When it comes to design from the cold war era, you picture a world populated by cliches. On one side of the Iron Curtain, there's the sex appeal of American consumer goods \u2013 Raymond Loewy's curvaceous fridges and Harley Earl's tail-finned automobiles gleaming under their polish. On the other, you have the drab world of Soviet consumer goods, all muddy hues, clunkiness and hard angles. Was Soviet product design really so bad? Perhaps. And yet, writes Michael Idov in the introduction to Made in Russia: Unsung Icons of Soviet Design, \"To live in the Soviet Union was not to be ignorant of good design. It was to be obsessively, erotically hyperaware of it.\"Two points are being made here. The first is simply that in a market starved of decent goods, quality jumped out. But the insinuation is also that communism didn't suppress desire, and that is the reason it failed to triumph over capitalism. With hindsight, we know that Richard Nixon was on to a winner when he challenged Nikita Khruschev at the infamous Kitchen Debate in 1959 with the question: \"Would it not be better to compete in the relative merit of washing machines than in the strength of rockets?\" It has become a kind of truism that washing machines \u2013 and fridges, Tupperware, cars and electric guitars \u2013 are what won the cold war. But it seems enough water has flowed under the bridge to merit a touch of revisionism, not to say nostalgia.Not all of the 50 objects Idov has catalogued in Made in Russia are great designs \u2013 in fact, very few are \u2013 but they have an endearing charm now that no one is forced to live with them. There's the reflector electrical heater, a mini satellite dish with a scarcely protected filament that was only so-so at warming you up, but highly effective at starting fires. In a similar vein, the boiling wand was a traveller's kettle that you put into water instead of the other way round: it made a mean cuppa and could black out an entire city block. Then there are objects at once familiar and alien, such as the diplomatic telephone with no dial, like a face with no features (\"unheimlich\", Freud would call it: uncanny). Another is the Tonika electric guitar, strangely amoeboid and famously unplayable.Perhaps a truer depiction of Soviet design, however, is not the comedy of errors described above but a weird mirror image of the west. When Khruschev dismissed American domestic superiority at the Kitchen Debate, the irony was that the only templates trusted by the Russian authorities when it came to design were western ones. Soviet design was a world of reverse-engineered knock-offs. The most notorious case is the Vyatka scooter, an ersatz Vespa, which even borrowed the same font for its logo. Similarly, the Vesna portable cassette player imitated Japanese models, while the Elektronika handheld video game was a rip-off of Nintendo's Game and Watch console \u2013 although Idov reminds us that the Soviets did give us Tetris.What went wrong for Soviet design? It started so promisingly. In the two decades after the Bolshevik revolution the constructivists were reimagining almost every aspect of daily life, from clothing to architecture. What spelled the end of design after the second world war \u2013 ironically, just as American consumer culture was coming into its own \u2013 was the entrenchment of a bureaucratic cadre. And here there is a backstory to Made in Russia that Idov only hints at. Imagine a system in which nothing could be released on the market without the stamp of the VNIITE, the Soviet industrial design institute. And imagine if the VNIITE's method of certifying a design was to compare it with its closest western counterpart. Suddenly, all that flagrant copying makes sense. Originality was discouraged; the bureaucrats had no way to judge it. Somewhere in the VNIITE archives there may just be a parallel world of Soviet design that exists only on paper. I, for one, would love to see it.Of course, there was another essential flaw in the USSR's design ambitions: the lack of competition. Where was the incentive for a company to improve a product when there was no alternative for consumers to turn to? At the same time, if you'd just reached the end of a six-month waiting list for a fridge, or a 10-year waiting list for a Zaporozhets car, you'd be so happy to finally have one that your critical faculties might not be at their sharpest.There were some genuinely classic designs, though. The Lomo camera, with its super-saturated film, is still hugely popular in an otherwise digital world. The avos shopping bag, essentially a string vest with handles, was ubiquitous and remains far preferable to plastic bags, just as the collapsible portable cup is preferable to millions of plastic and polystyrene ones. The ribbed drinking glass, meanwhile, and the Saturna and Raketa vacuum cleaners, simply lasted for ever. We may mock Soviet design, but there are lessons to heed from it. Durability, for one. In our disposable culture, rapid replacement cycles have almost inured us to the idea that nothing lasts. Such is the price, apparently, of free enterprise and consumer choice.As it happens, I was in Moscow last week, and I wondered whether the arrival of capitalism had solved all these problems. I dropped in on the Art Lebedev Studio, Russia's largest design agency with a staff of 200, and spoke to one of its art directors, Timur Burbayev. While the situation has improved, he says, the problem is education. Many of the teachers at the design schools are relics of the Soviet era, with no practical experience of design in the real world and no connections to the industry. \"At the Stroganoff University, the first project they set the students is to design something in the style of Russian constructivism,\" says Burbayev.However, one thing has changed: designers can now take power into their own hands. Burbayev gave me two incredible examples. In 2007 the Russian central bank held a competition to design a symbol for the ruble, which has never had one. Instead of waiting for the government to choose, 26 of the best design firms in Russia chose a design among themselves, and agreed to make it a contractual obligation to use it as the symbol for the ruble in their work. It is now the de facto symbol for the currency, even though the government has never authorised it. Similarly, frustrated by the state of the Moscow subway map, which is ungainly and out-of-date (13 new stops have opened since it was designed), the Art Lebedev Studio created its own, and provided a free downloadable version to anyone who wanted to publish it. Consequently, it now appears in all kinds of guidebooks; but when metro staff are asked for a copy they are completely nonplussed. Which must be rather satisfying for the rebel designers. Where the bureaucrats once held an omnipotent grip on design, designers of the post-Soviet era have learned to turn the tables on them. From which we can conclude one of two things: either getting things done in new Russia means resorting to piratical tactics, or, with a free market and the internet, good design is just difficult to keep down.", "tags": ["Design", "Art and design", "Moscow holidays", "Russia holidays", "Culture"], "title": "Made in Russia: What we can learn from Soviet design"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T01:19:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 44 people have been killed after a passenger jet crashed in north-west Russia, a government spokesman said.The plane, reportedly carrying 52 people, including nine crew, crashed half a mile from the runway outside the northern city of Petrozavodsk at about 11.40pm local time on Monday. News agencies reported that eight people who survived the crash were seriously injured and taken to hospital.There was no immediate explanation for the crash, but the Interfax news agency quoted the airport director Alexei Kuzmitsky as saying there were \"unfavourable weather conditions\".The plane, a Russian-made Tu-134 jet, reportedly crashed on its final approach to the airport in Petrozavodsk, landing a few hundred yards short of the runway. Petrozavodsk is in the in the province of Karelia, 640km (400 miles) north-west of Moscow.News agencies reported that Russian Premier League football referee Vladimir Pettaya was among the victims, as well as one Swedish national.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Plane crashes", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia plane crash kills at least 44"},{"date": "2011-06-07T12:59:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The organisers of the 2014 winter Olympics in the Russian resort city of Sochi last month appointed EF Education First, the Swiss-based language training provider, as the official supplier of language training for the event, with the task of teaching English to up to 70,000 Olympic staff, volunteers and tourist-sector workers.Work is already under way to build stadiums and transport infrastructure from scratch in the coastal city and neighbouring alpine resort. But with the games expected to attract tens of thousands of international visitors the organisers must now ensure that language is not a final barrier to success.English will be the lingua franca of the games, not only among officials and athletes but also on the streets of Sochi, a city that hopes to make its mark on the international tourist map. But with the 1,000-day countdown to the opening of the games in February 2014 now started, the challenge of turning everyone from trackside judges to city taxi drivers into confident users of English is daunting.According to Bernard Shearer, head of EF in Russia, his company has a proven track record in delivering large-scale English programmes.EF links to the Olympics date back to the 1988 games in Seoul, and more recently it was responsible for training 6,000 Olympic officials in advance of the Beijing games in 2008.It was contracted to train up to 60,000 staff in the build up to the 2010 Asian games in Guanghzou, China, and it is currently working with Brazil's ministry of tourism to deliver English and Spanish training through the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme to 80,000 people a year working in the hospitality sector in preparation for the 2014 football World Cup.EF kicked off its campaign for the Sochi games last month with the launch of a website offering daily English lessons and winter Olympics-themed vocabulary.From 2012 it will launch dedicated English language teaching for 7,500 Sochi 2014 organising committee staff, 25,000 volunteers, to be recruited from across Russia and up to 35,000 suppliers and contractors.EF opened its first language school in Russia in the mid-1990s and now has 33 schools in 11 cities. But Shearer says that it would be impossible to achieve its target through face-to-face teaching alone.\"The biggest challenge for us is geography. We are dealing with 25,000 volunteers spread across Russia's nine time zones,\" he said.So most of the teaching will be delivered online through EF's establish web portal Englishtown. Learners will be able to log on to the standard Englishtown lessons to develop general English communication skills and access additional specialist language depending on their roles.\"We are at an early stage of the project in terms of establishing the language profiles of the staff,\" Shearer said. But he anticipates that most users will need to focus on general communication skills.\"We found that Olympic judges in Beijing needed general communication skills. They needed to work on their technical language in English, but at least they had the platform of being able to understand that core language.\"Svetlana Ter-Minasova, dean of modern languages at Moscow State University and one of Russia's leading ELT experts, is optimistic about EF's involvement in the Sochi 2014 Olympic programme and thinks that younger learners especially will benefit from the quality of EF content.\"There is huge demand for English among young people but it exceeds the supply of good quality teaching,\" she said.Of the optional foreign languages in the state school curriculum English is by far the most popular, she says, but recent education reforms have meant that raising standards of teaching and materials has not been a priority.EF's focus on online training could be a test of stamina for Olympic learners. Shearer admits that awareness of the internet as a medium for learning remains low in Russia.\"People still have an outdated understanding of distance learning via the internet. But our online school has developed enormously, with live teachers available 24 hours a day and mobile technology. We now have to communicate that message to the public.\"In Brazil, the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme combines online lessons with face-to-face learning in training hubs in 11 cities. But Graeme Hodgson, a former director of ELT at the British Council in Brazil, who now works for the Cultura Inglesa language schools chain, says that the World Cup has created a new niche of students in the service sector who want rapid acquisition of basic spoken communication skills.\"I'm not convinced people will have either the motivation or the time to go to face-to-face sessions, nor indeed is the track record of fully online courses very good, with dropout rates often reaching 60 or 70%,\" Hodgson said.It also remains to be seen whether the organisers of the Sochi games, even with EF's help, will be able to generate and sustain the level of English language learning that has preceded recent major sporting events in China such as the Beijing Olympics.Bob Adamson of Hong Kong's Institute of Education says those government-led campaigns helped to boost the status of spoken English.\"They contributed to the perception that English is a high status language in China \u2013 a language that can provide access to economic resources and social mobility,\" Adamson said.But the lasting impact on skills levels of China's pre-event training is questionable, says Brendan O'Kane, a US linguist and long-term resident of Beijing.\"A lot of training was targeted at people in the service industry, especially cab drivers. My sense is that very little of that training stuck. Once the Olympics were over things went back to normal,\" O'Kane said.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Russia", "South and Central Asia", "Winter Olympics 2014", "Olympics"], "title": "Russia in race for Olympic English"},{"date": "2011-06-30T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If we can begin with a sweeping generalisation, American science-fiction movies are usually distinguished by a fast pace that gets faster and ends with an enormous bang. Not all: George Lucas's THX\u00a01138 and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A\u00a0Space Odyssey are different. But these are exceptional even within those directors' work: Lucas's other sci-fi films being fast-moving toy-operas, while\u00a0Kubrick's Doctor Strangelove and Clockwork Orange are relentless in their irony and forward movement.Partially, I think, this is because US sci-fi films were born of very low budgets in the 1950s, in the hands of independents such as Jack Arnold. They were often parables about the danger of nuclear testing, which caused men to shrink, or ants to grow giant, or prehistoric sea-beasts to carry off swimsuited girls. Films such as Creature from the Black Lagoon and Them! relied on visual effects, but those effects were pretty cheesy, and couldn't be on screen for long \u2013 so, cut to the scientist and his daughter, and on to the explosion.2001 is, by contrast, famously slow-paced and enigmatic. Its meaning remains unclear four decades on, and it still resembles its own seamless monolith, \"its origin and purpose a total mystery\". In its pace, its attention to the mechanical detail of space flight, and its memorable computer, 2001 is, in some ways, the perfect Russian science-fiction film.I say this because many film enthusiasts will have seen the film the Russians actually made, Tarkovsky's Solaris. It is an extraordinary film: not as fine as Kubrick's in its special effects, but much more complex in its depiction of human beings captured by aliens and placed in an imaginary world based on an incomplete understanding of their memories. 2001 is about the big picture \u2013 the great gas planets turning, the vast space station wheeling around Earth \u2013 while Solaris deals with little things, like why a man can't undo his wife's dress, or why it's raining indoors.Now we have a unique chance to view some less familiar artefacts from another world, via the BFI Southbank's celebration of Eastern Bloc science fiction. Strangest of these is the 1924 silent Aelita: Queen of Mars, in which the human pastime of kissing creates turmoil on the red planet.But it was the Gagarin space launch that triggered a profusion of Soviet-era social dramas with a cosmic backdrop. The Russians may have dropped out of the race for the moon, but their cinema took up the slack. Here, space missions of the boldest kind were launched, and a flourishing film industry united to promote man's destiny among the stars.Both Silent Star (1959) and Planet of Storms (1962) depict missions to Venus in this heroic vein. Each features a cast of cosmonauts, male and female, and a cute robot \u2013 inspired by Robby the adorable android from Forbidden Planet. These are mainstream adventure movies, yet each is pessimistic in a very fundamental way.The East-German-Polish co-production Silent Star, based on a Stanislaw Lem novel, tells the story of a multi-racial, United World Government space mission to find intelligent life on Earth's sister planet. Thus described, it sounds like one of those Japanese movies such as The Mysterians \u2013 but it's more complex and morally ambiguous. Just before the ship is about to land on Venus, the cosmonauts learn of a Venusian plan to destroy life on Earth. Unable to contact home, they carry on with the mission rather than return to Earth and warn humankind. Luckily, it turns out the Venusians have destroyed themselves by over-weaponising their fragile planet. Silent Star's images of melted cities and crystallised forests, overhung by swirling clouds of gas, are masterpieces of production design. The scene in which three cosmonauts are menaced, halfway up a miniature Tower of Babel, by an encroaching sea of sludge may not entirely convince, but it is still a heck of a thing to see.Planet of Storms is a Russian version of these same events, beginning with a shot of three immaculate Soviet spacecraft nearing Venus \u2013 one of which is immediately atomised by a passing meteor. The surviving cosmonauts, though grief-stricken, elect to press on to Venus at great risk. We then embark on a surprisingly madcap story of interplanetary exploration. There are giant carnivorous plants, man-size dinosaurs and octopus things. The cute robot fells trees and plays big band music. And in its final minutes, Planet of Storms takes an extraordinary turn. It turns out there is intelligent life on Venus after all, which is revealed in a clever and surprising way. I shall not spoil the secret, but it's worth the wait.Planet of Storms had an unfortunate subsequent history. It was bought for US distribution by Roger Corman, who proceeded to cut it up and use the pieces for two other films, an act of cinematic cannibalism that gave us Curtis Harrington's Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet and Peter Bogdanovich's equally classic Voyage to the Planet of Prehistoric Women.\u00a0So it's good to see at last what director Pavel Klushantsev intended.By the early 1960s some conventions for Soviet sci-fi movies had developed: in\u00a0addition to the space mission and the cute robot, the spaceship was always run by a computer; one cosmonaut had to\u00a0keep\u00a0a log book. Jindrich Pol\u00e1k's Icarus XB 1 (also\u00a0known as Voyage to the End of\u00a0the Universe) uses every one of these conventions \u2013 yet this Czech movie remains one of the most original and exciting science fiction fims ever made.Immaculately filmed in black-and-white Cinemascope, it is beautiful and austere. The effects are second to none: Kubrick and his visual effects genius Wally Veevers must have seen it and analysed its\u00a0models and matte shots before making 2001. But there is far more to Icarus than special effects. Adapted from another Lem novel, The Magellanic Cloud, the film is packed with sublime moments unlike those of any film preceding it.Four months into Icarus' mission, morale almost collapses. The crew cease to go to the gym. The solution \u2013 a formal dance, with white dinner jackets and dresses. The event pulls the crew together, as they drink and take 21st-century drugs, and the dancing is wonderful: hip, formal, sexy and strange. The cosmonauts' soiree is interrupted by\u00a0the arrival of a derelict spacecraft, inhabited by something so strange I can only say it seems to have drifted in from a\u00a0Bu\u00f1uel film, and is both chilling and entirely appropriate.And the film gets better. Radiation poison from a dark star nearly kills the crew. One goes mad (yes, Icarus anticipates Solaris, too). Yet the outcome of this strange sleeping sickness is splendid: perhaps the best finale of any science-fiction film, ever. Like all the other films here, it is a visual experience to revel in.All of these films have merit. But Icarus XB-1 is something else again: a game-changing film that profoundly influenced the genre and showed that science-fiction movies weren't only about special effects; they were also high art. Of the hardest and most admirable kind.\u2022 Kosmos, a season of Soviet sci-fi films starts on 1 July at the BFI Southbank, and runs until 31 August. bfi.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "World cinema", "BFI"], "title": "Rockets from Russia: great Eastern Bloc science-fiction films"},{"date": "2011-06-23T14:14:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When it comes to design from the cold war era, you picture a world populated by cliches. On one side of the Iron Curtain, there's the sex appeal of American consumer goods \u2013 Raymond Loewy's curvaceous fridges and Harley Earl's tail-finned automobiles gleaming under their polish. On the other, you have the drab world of Soviet consumer goods, all muddy hues, clunkiness and hard angles. Was Soviet product design really so bad? Perhaps. And yet, writes Michael Idov in the introduction to Made in Russia: Unsung Icons of Soviet Design, \"To live in the Soviet Union was not to be ignorant of good design. It was to be obsessively, erotically hyperaware of it.\"Two points are being made here. The first is simply that in a market starved of decent goods, quality jumped out. But the insinuation is also that communism didn't suppress desire, and that is the reason it failed to triumph over capitalism. With hindsight, we know that Richard Nixon was on to a winner when he challenged Nikita Khruschev at the infamous Kitchen Debate in 1959 with the question: \"Would it not be better to compete in the relative merit of washing machines than in the strength of rockets?\" It has become a kind of truism that washing machines \u2013 and fridges, Tupperware, cars and electric guitars \u2013 are what won the cold war. But it seems enough water has flowed under the bridge to merit a touch of revisionism, not to say nostalgia.Not all of the 50 objects Idov has catalogued in Made in Russia are great designs \u2013 in fact, very few are \u2013 but they have an endearing charm now that no one is forced to live with them. There's the reflector electrical heater, a mini satellite dish with a scarcely protected filament that was only so-so at warming you up, but highly effective at starting fires. In a similar vein, the boiling wand was a traveller's kettle that you put into water instead of the other way round: it made a mean cuppa and could black out an entire city block. Then there are objects at once familiar and alien, such as the diplomatic telephone with no dial, like a face with no features (\"unheimlich\", Freud would call it: uncanny). Another is the Tonika electric guitar, strangely amoeboid and famously unplayable.Perhaps a truer depiction of Soviet design, however, is not the comedy of errors described above but a weird mirror image of the west. When Khruschev dismissed American domestic superiority at the Kitchen Debate, the irony was that the only templates trusted by the Russian authorities when it came to design were western ones. Soviet design was a world of reverse-engineered knock-offs. The most notorious case is the Vyatka scooter, an ersatz Vespa, which even borrowed the same font for its logo. Similarly, the Vesna portable cassette player imitated Japanese models, while the Elektronika handheld video game was a rip-off of Nintendo's Game and Watch console \u2013 although Idov reminds us that the Soviets did give us Tetris.What went wrong for Soviet design? It started so promisingly. In the two decades after the Bolshevik revolution the constructivists were reimagining almost every aspect of daily life, from clothing to architecture. What spelled the end of design after the second world war \u2013 ironically, just as American consumer culture was coming into its own \u2013 was the entrenchment of a bureaucratic cadre. And here there is a backstory to Made in Russia that Idov only hints at. Imagine a system in which nothing could be released on the market without the stamp of the VNIITE, the Soviet industrial design institute. And imagine if the VNIITE's method of certifying a design was to compare it with its closest western counterpart. Suddenly, all that flagrant copying makes sense. Originality was discouraged; the bureaucrats had no way to judge it. Somewhere in the VNIITE archives there may just be a parallel world of Soviet design that exists only on paper. I, for one, would love to see it.Of course, there was another essential flaw in the USSR's design ambitions: the lack of competition. Where was the incentive for a company to improve a product when there was no alternative for consumers to turn to? At the same time, if you'd just reached the end of a six-month waiting list for a fridge, or a 10-year waiting list for a Zaporozhets car, you'd be so happy to finally have one that your critical faculties might not be at their sharpest.There were some genuinely classic designs, though. The Lomo camera, with its super-saturated film, is still hugely popular in an otherwise digital world. The avos shopping bag, essentially a string vest with handles, was ubiquitous and remains far preferable to plastic bags, just as the collapsible portable cup is preferable to millions of plastic and polystyrene ones. The ribbed drinking glass, meanwhile, and the Saturna and Raketa vacuum cleaners, simply lasted for ever. We may mock Soviet design, but there are lessons to heed from it. Durability, for one. In our disposable culture, rapid replacement cycles have almost inured us to the idea that nothing lasts. Such is the price, apparently, of free enterprise and consumer choice.As it happens, I was in Moscow last week, and I wondered whether the arrival of capitalism had solved all these problems. I dropped in on the Art Lebedev Studio, Russia's largest design agency with a staff of 200, and spoke to one of its art directors, Timur Burbayev. While the situation has improved, he says, the problem is education. Many of the teachers at the design schools are relics of the Soviet era, with no practical experience of design in the real world and no connections to the industry. \"At the Stroganoff University, the first project they set the students is to design something in the style of Russian constructivism,\" says Burbayev.However, one thing has changed: designers can now take power into their own hands. Burbayev gave me two incredible examples. In 2007 the Russian central bank held a competition to design a symbol for the ruble, which has never had one. Instead of waiting for the government to choose, 26 of the best design firms in Russia chose a design among themselves, and agreed to make it a contractual obligation to use it as the symbol for the ruble in their work. It is now the de facto symbol for the currency, even though the government has never authorised it. Similarly, frustrated by the state of the Moscow subway map, which is ungainly and out-of-date (13 new stops have opened since it was designed), the Art Lebedev Studio created its own, and provided a free downloadable version to anyone who wanted to publish it. Consequently, it now appears in all kinds of guidebooks; but when metro staff are asked for a copy they are completely nonplussed. Which must be rather satisfying for the rebel designers. Where the bureaucrats once held an omnipotent grip on design, designers of the post-Soviet era have learned to turn the tables on them. From which we can conclude one of two things: either getting things done in new Russia means resorting to piratical tactics, or, with a free market and the internet, good design is just difficult to keep down.", "tags": ["Design", "Art and design", "Moscow holidays", "Russia holidays", "Culture"], "title": "Made in Russia: What we can learn from Soviet design"},{"date": "2011-06-19T16:33:31Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government wants to speed up and increase the size of the planned further privatisation of Rosneft, in the wake of the collapsed share swap with BP.Ministers were planning to sell down more of their 85% stake in the oil group on the Moscow and London stock markets in 2013 if the BP deal had gone through.Now they are looking at bringing this forward to next year and have said that they would be happy if BP bought shares in the company as part of a move that could see the government control falling below 50%.The plans were revealed in an exclusive interview given to the Guardian by Arkady Dvorkovich, chief economic policy adviser to Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian president.\"We want Rosneft to be a normal commercial public company,\" he said. \"The original government proposals were to start [the share sale] in 2013 but maybe now it will be brought forward to 2012.\"It's not up to me to say what the best timing would be. That is up to the company itself and investment banks working on this.\"Dvorkovich denied suggestions that the failure of BP to win the backing of its Russian shareholders inside TNK-BP for the Rosneft deal had frustrated the Kremlin. The collapse of the equity and Arctic drilling agreement was regrettable but not something that should be expected to blight the British company's future in Russia, he explained.\"It was not about politics but a business deal and it did not happen. But BP is one of the biggest Russian partners in the energy sector and we expect it to continue to play a major role in Russia and elsewhere.\"Dvorkovich was building on comments made on Friday by Medvedev when he opened the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.The president explained that the domination of state-owned companies had led to low entrepreneurial and low investment activity.\"Such an economic model poses a danger for the country's future. This is not my choice,\" Medvedev said in a speech interpreted by some as using fast-track economic development as an electioneering message for another term of office.Under previous plans, the government has talked about raising $10bn (\u00a36.2bn) annually from such sales over five years.But Dvorkovich said that figure might now be raised by 50% to $15bn, meaning the Kremlin could be looking at a target of up to $75bn over five years.He indicated that the money-raising might happen in London but alternatively could be done in New York, Hong Kong or even Shanghai \u2013 or a combination of these. He said initial or further privatisation was on the cards for the grid operator FGC, former pride of the Soviet industrialisation programme, which quietly listed some existing shares in London three months ago.There are similar possible plans for the shipping group Sovcomflot, banks such as VTB and possibly some airports.But there are no plans currently for privatising in a similar way the giant gas group Gazprom. Dvorkovich cited the complexity of the domestic energy market, where the company is a monopoly provider. He said Russia recognised that its companies needed to attract new technology, stronger management skills and more vibrant research and development.Rosneft would continue to talk to companies such as Shell about Arctic drilling deals but few expect the kind of share swap that had been proposed with BP.Dvorkovich said he believed Russia had made progress convincing the European Union that his country did not want to use energy as a political weapon.Turning off gas supplies to Ukraine in previous winters amid price rows never was about politics, said the government official. But he agreed that the Russian government was aware that some had interpreted it in that way, and this had damaged Russia and Gazprom.Dvorkovich also accepted that there was ongoing tension with Europe over Russia's refusal to open its markets up to foreign competition. This was a difficult issue but he said: \"We are trying to find a solution to this.\"Medvedev is also keen to build Moscow and regional cities as financial centres but accepts that corruption must be tackled and corporate governance standards improved to achieve this.", "tags": ["Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Commodities", "BP", "Energy industry", "Business", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia aims to speed up privatisation of oil group Rosneft"},{"date": "2011-04-11T16:32:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Our four-week sprint around Europe came to a close last week with a short stop in Poland. There we found lalka in pursuit of Andrzej Stasiuk's \"ode to the wild east\", On the Road to Babadag, cloud22 on cloud nine with Wis\u0142awa Szymborska's \"playful, witty, sublime\" poems and paulvsmith hailing Jan Potocki's \"sinister, gothic, compelling, epically scary\" The Manuscript Found in Saragossa Way. Thanks for all these recommendations.Back in the discussion, Bruno Schulz and Olga Tokarczuk met with nods of approval, but the discussion also centred around where the World literature tour should head next, with CSinTR's suggestion of China winning general approval.But since this week is the 50th anniversary of Gagarin's space flight and the London book fair is being invaded by a new generation of Russian writers, I've decided to stage a coup.The fair's Russia Market Focus is a marketing operation, featuring the authors the authorities want - for whatever reason - to promote. But have they made the right choices? Who have they left behind? And what about the questions we've already started to explore elsewhere. Is Russian literature being carried into the 21st century by an exciting new generation uninhibited by a Soviet past, as Russian Booker laureate Olga Slavnikova claims in her introduction to an anthology of Debut prize-winning writers? Or is our commenter @Minsredmash right in responding that \"The 'New Russia' has failed to produce anything remotely resembling those giants of the past.\" Were we right in asserting that many of Russia's best-known writers live in exile? Not according to @sarka, who wrote \"Nonsense. Not only have there been some excellent (and only in some cases exiled) Russian writers between Gorky and the end of communism, but Pelevin and Sorokin are both extremely good contemporary Russian writers, much better in my view than many of the lionised contemporary novelists of the West . . . And some Russians do pretty cool more pop stuff as well, such as Lukyanenko's Day Watch and Night Watch stuff.\"So, it's over to you.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-08T09:00:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is home to the fastest-growing HIV epidemic in the world, with an estimated 1 in 100 Russians living with HIV. Russia's epidemic is unique as it is largely driven by injecting drug use, although it is now spreading into the general population. An estimated eight in 10 people living with HIV became infected through sharing needles. Injecting drug users are one of the most marginalised groups in our society.I know, from being a former addict myself, that when caught in the cycle of drug addiction, people do not care about contracting HIV. I remember very well that there could be 10 people in a room and they would all share the same needle. Even if they did have money to buy clean syringes, they didn't because they were too lazy. So that's how a lot of people became infected.That's why successfully treating drug addiction is critical to tackling the spread of HIV. But here in Russia, drug addiction is treated as a crime, not a disease.The biggest challenge I see is the huge intolerance, stigma and discrimination against people with HIV. Things are slowly improving, as awareness of the drug problem and HIV is higher than five years ago. But from my experience from the rehab centres, ex-addicts living with HIV face huge stigma and discrimination \u2013 from society at large, as well as from much of the public health system. Sometimes it even comes from their own family. In most cases this is simply because of ignorance. So most people living with HIV feel they have no option but to lead a double life, hiding their status.It is very hard for me to know if Russia will achieve MDG6, as the picture in the whole of the country is hard to see from here. But from my experience I see that access to treatment and awareness of HIV has improved since 2005. We refer patients to regional Aids centres where they can access testing, counselling and treatment. But in comparison with our European neighbours or the US, it is very poor.Funding is a significant issue, particularly for non-government work and non-commercial operations, as they seek to stem the spread of HIV among the most vulnerable groups. A sad reality is that funding for palliative care, such as hospices, is increasingly necessary. Russia needs more training and better expertise in preventing the spread of HIV, particularly among drug users.", "tags": ["Global development", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Living with HIV in Russia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T01:19:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "At least 44 people have been killed after a passenger jet crashed in north-west Russia, a government spokesman said.The plane, reportedly carrying 52 people, including nine crew, crashed half a mile from the runway outside the northern city of Petrozavodsk at about 11.40pm local time on Monday. News agencies reported that eight people who survived the crash were seriously injured and taken to hospital.There was no immediate explanation for the crash, but the Interfax news agency quoted the airport director Alexei Kuzmitsky as saying there were \"unfavourable weather conditions\".The plane, a Russian-made Tu-134 jet, reportedly crashed on its final approach to the airport in Petrozavodsk, landing a few hundred yards short of the runway. Petrozavodsk is in the in the province of Karelia, 640km (400 miles) north-west of Moscow.News agencies reported that Russian Premier League football referee Vladimir Pettaya was among the victims, as well as one Swedish national.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Plane crashes", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia plane crash kills at least 44"},{"date": "2011-06-07T12:59:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The organisers of the 2014 winter Olympics in the Russian resort city of Sochi last month appointed EF Education First, the Swiss-based language training provider, as the official supplier of language training for the event, with the task of teaching English to up to 70,000 Olympic staff, volunteers and tourist-sector workers.Work is already under way to build stadiums and transport infrastructure from scratch in the coastal city and neighbouring alpine resort. But with the games expected to attract tens of thousands of international visitors the organisers must now ensure that language is not a final barrier to success.English will be the lingua franca of the games, not only among officials and athletes but also on the streets of Sochi, a city that hopes to make its mark on the international tourist map. But with the 1,000-day countdown to the opening of the games in February 2014 now started, the challenge of turning everyone from trackside judges to city taxi drivers into confident users of English is daunting.According to Bernard Shearer, head of EF in Russia, his company has a proven track record in delivering large-scale English programmes.EF links to the Olympics date back to the 1988 games in Seoul, and more recently it was responsible for training 6,000 Olympic officials in advance of the Beijing games in 2008.It was contracted to train up to 60,000 staff in the build up to the 2010 Asian games in Guanghzou, China, and it is currently working with Brazil's ministry of tourism to deliver English and Spanish training through the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme to 80,000 people a year working in the hospitality sector in preparation for the 2014 football World Cup.EF kicked off its campaign for the Sochi games last month with the launch of a website offering daily English lessons and winter Olympics-themed vocabulary.From 2012 it will launch dedicated English language teaching for 7,500 Sochi 2014 organising committee staff, 25,000 volunteers, to be recruited from across Russia and up to 35,000 suppliers and contractors.EF opened its first language school in Russia in the mid-1990s and now has 33 schools in 11 cities. But Shearer says that it would be impossible to achieve its target through face-to-face teaching alone.\"The biggest challenge for us is geography. We are dealing with 25,000 volunteers spread across Russia's nine time zones,\" he said.So most of the teaching will be delivered online through EF's establish web portal Englishtown. Learners will be able to log on to the standard Englishtown lessons to develop general English communication skills and access additional specialist language depending on their roles.\"We are at an early stage of the project in terms of establishing the language profiles of the staff,\" Shearer said. But he anticipates that most users will need to focus on general communication skills.\"We found that Olympic judges in Beijing needed general communication skills. They needed to work on their technical language in English, but at least they had the platform of being able to understand that core language.\"Svetlana Ter-Minasova, dean of modern languages at Moscow State University and one of Russia's leading ELT experts, is optimistic about EF's involvement in the Sochi 2014 Olympic programme and thinks that younger learners especially will benefit from the quality of EF content.\"There is huge demand for English among young people but it exceeds the supply of good quality teaching,\" she said.Of the optional foreign languages in the state school curriculum English is by far the most popular, she says, but recent education reforms have meant that raising standards of teaching and materials has not been a priority.EF's focus on online training could be a test of stamina for Olympic learners. Shearer admits that awareness of the internet as a medium for learning remains low in Russia.\"People still have an outdated understanding of distance learning via the internet. But our online school has developed enormously, with live teachers available 24 hours a day and mobile technology. We now have to communicate that message to the public.\"In Brazil, the Ol\u00e1 Turista programme combines online lessons with face-to-face learning in training hubs in 11 cities. But Graeme Hodgson, a former director of ELT at the British Council in Brazil, who now works for the Cultura Inglesa language schools chain, says that the World Cup has created a new niche of students in the service sector who want rapid acquisition of basic spoken communication skills.\"I'm not convinced people will have either the motivation or the time to go to face-to-face sessions, nor indeed is the track record of fully online courses very good, with dropout rates often reaching 60 or 70%,\" Hodgson said.It also remains to be seen whether the organisers of the Sochi games, even with EF's help, will be able to generate and sustain the level of English language learning that has preceded recent major sporting events in China such as the Beijing Olympics.Bob Adamson of Hong Kong's Institute of Education says those government-led campaigns helped to boost the status of spoken English.\"They contributed to the perception that English is a high status language in China \u2013 a language that can provide access to economic resources and social mobility,\" Adamson said.But the lasting impact on skills levels of China's pre-event training is questionable, says Brendan O'Kane, a US linguist and long-term resident of Beijing.\"A lot of training was targeted at people in the service industry, especially cab drivers. My sense is that very little of that training stuck. Once the Olympics were over things went back to normal,\" O'Kane said.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Russia", "South and Central Asia", "Winter Olympics 2014", "Olympics"], "title": "Russia in race for Olympic English"},{"date": "2011-06-30T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If we can begin with a sweeping generalisation, American science-fiction movies are usually distinguished by a fast pace that gets faster and ends with an enormous bang. Not all: George Lucas's THX\u00a01138 and Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A\u00a0Space Odyssey are different. But these are exceptional even within those directors' work: Lucas's other sci-fi films being fast-moving toy-operas, while\u00a0Kubrick's Doctor Strangelove and Clockwork Orange are relentless in their irony and forward movement.Partially, I think, this is because US sci-fi films were born of very low budgets in the 1950s, in the hands of independents such as Jack Arnold. They were often parables about the danger of nuclear testing, which caused men to shrink, or ants to grow giant, or prehistoric sea-beasts to carry off swimsuited girls. Films such as Creature from the Black Lagoon and Them! relied on visual effects, but those effects were pretty cheesy, and couldn't be on screen for long \u2013 so, cut to the scientist and his daughter, and on to the explosion.2001 is, by contrast, famously slow-paced and enigmatic. Its meaning remains unclear four decades on, and it still resembles its own seamless monolith, \"its origin and purpose a total mystery\". In its pace, its attention to the mechanical detail of space flight, and its memorable computer, 2001 is, in some ways, the perfect Russian science-fiction film.I say this because many film enthusiasts will have seen the film the Russians actually made, Tarkovsky's Solaris. It is an extraordinary film: not as fine as Kubrick's in its special effects, but much more complex in its depiction of human beings captured by aliens and placed in an imaginary world based on an incomplete understanding of their memories. 2001 is about the big picture \u2013 the great gas planets turning, the vast space station wheeling around Earth \u2013 while Solaris deals with little things, like why a man can't undo his wife's dress, or why it's raining indoors.Now we have a unique chance to view some less familiar artefacts from another world, via the BFI Southbank's celebration of Eastern Bloc science fiction. Strangest of these is the 1924 silent Aelita: Queen of Mars, in which the human pastime of kissing creates turmoil on the red planet.But it was the Gagarin space launch that triggered a profusion of Soviet-era social dramas with a cosmic backdrop. The Russians may have dropped out of the race for the moon, but their cinema took up the slack. Here, space missions of the boldest kind were launched, and a flourishing film industry united to promote man's destiny among the stars.Both Silent Star (1959) and Planet of Storms (1962) depict missions to Venus in this heroic vein. Each features a cast of cosmonauts, male and female, and a cute robot \u2013 inspired by Robby the adorable android from Forbidden Planet. These are mainstream adventure movies, yet each is pessimistic in a very fundamental way.The East-German-Polish co-production Silent Star, based on a Stanislaw Lem novel, tells the story of a multi-racial, United World Government space mission to find intelligent life on Earth's sister planet. Thus described, it sounds like one of those Japanese movies such as The Mysterians \u2013 but it's more complex and morally ambiguous. Just before the ship is about to land on Venus, the cosmonauts learn of a Venusian plan to destroy life on Earth. Unable to contact home, they carry on with the mission rather than return to Earth and warn humankind. Luckily, it turns out the Venusians have destroyed themselves by over-weaponising their fragile planet. Silent Star's images of melted cities and crystallised forests, overhung by swirling clouds of gas, are masterpieces of production design. The scene in which three cosmonauts are menaced, halfway up a miniature Tower of Babel, by an encroaching sea of sludge may not entirely convince, but it is still a heck of a thing to see.Planet of Storms is a Russian version of these same events, beginning with a shot of three immaculate Soviet spacecraft nearing Venus \u2013 one of which is immediately atomised by a passing meteor. The surviving cosmonauts, though grief-stricken, elect to press on to Venus at great risk. We then embark on a surprisingly madcap story of interplanetary exploration. There are giant carnivorous plants, man-size dinosaurs and octopus things. The cute robot fells trees and plays big band music. And in its final minutes, Planet of Storms takes an extraordinary turn. It turns out there is intelligent life on Venus after all, which is revealed in a clever and surprising way. I shall not spoil the secret, but it's worth the wait.Planet of Storms had an unfortunate subsequent history. It was bought for US distribution by Roger Corman, who proceeded to cut it up and use the pieces for two other films, an act of cinematic cannibalism that gave us Curtis Harrington's Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet and Peter Bogdanovich's equally classic Voyage to the Planet of Prehistoric Women.\u00a0So it's good to see at last what director Pavel Klushantsev intended.By the early 1960s some conventions for Soviet sci-fi movies had developed: in\u00a0addition to the space mission and the cute robot, the spaceship was always run by a computer; one cosmonaut had to\u00a0keep\u00a0a log book. Jindrich Pol\u00e1k's Icarus XB 1 (also\u00a0known as Voyage to the End of\u00a0the Universe) uses every one of these conventions \u2013 yet this Czech movie remains one of the most original and exciting science fiction fims ever made.Immaculately filmed in black-and-white Cinemascope, it is beautiful and austere. The effects are second to none: Kubrick and his visual effects genius Wally Veevers must have seen it and analysed its\u00a0models and matte shots before making 2001. But there is far more to Icarus than special effects. Adapted from another Lem novel, The Magellanic Cloud, the film is packed with sublime moments unlike those of any film preceding it.Four months into Icarus' mission, morale almost collapses. The crew cease to go to the gym. The solution \u2013 a formal dance, with white dinner jackets and dresses. The event pulls the crew together, as they drink and take 21st-century drugs, and the dancing is wonderful: hip, formal, sexy and strange. The cosmonauts' soiree is interrupted by\u00a0the arrival of a derelict spacecraft, inhabited by something so strange I can only say it seems to have drifted in from a\u00a0Bu\u00f1uel film, and is both chilling and entirely appropriate.And the film gets better. Radiation poison from a dark star nearly kills the crew. One goes mad (yes, Icarus anticipates Solaris, too). Yet the outcome of this strange sleeping sickness is splendid: perhaps the best finale of any science-fiction film, ever. Like all the other films here, it is a visual experience to revel in.All of these films have merit. But Icarus XB-1 is something else again: a game-changing film that profoundly influenced the genre and showed that science-fiction movies weren't only about special effects; they were also high art. Of the hardest and most admirable kind.\u2022 Kosmos, a season of Soviet sci-fi films starts on 1 July at the BFI Southbank, and runs until 31 August. bfi.org.uk", "tags": ["Film", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "World cinema", "BFI"], "title": "Rockets from Russia: great Eastern Bloc science-fiction films"},{"date": "2011-06-23T14:14:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When it comes to design from the cold war era, you picture a world populated by cliches. On one side of the Iron Curtain, there's the sex appeal of American consumer goods \u2013 Raymond Loewy's curvaceous fridges and Harley Earl's tail-finned automobiles gleaming under their polish. On the other, you have the drab world of Soviet consumer goods, all muddy hues, clunkiness and hard angles. Was Soviet product design really so bad? Perhaps. And yet, writes Michael Idov in the introduction to Made in Russia: Unsung Icons of Soviet Design, \"To live in the Soviet Union was not to be ignorant of good design. It was to be obsessively, erotically hyperaware of it.\"Two points are being made here. The first is simply that in a market starved of decent goods, quality jumped out. But the insinuation is also that communism didn't suppress desire, and that is the reason it failed to triumph over capitalism. With hindsight, we know that Richard Nixon was on to a winner when he challenged Nikita Khruschev at the infamous Kitchen Debate in 1959 with the question: \"Would it not be better to compete in the relative merit of washing machines than in the strength of rockets?\" It has become a kind of truism that washing machines \u2013 and fridges, Tupperware, cars and electric guitars \u2013 are what won the cold war. But it seems enough water has flowed under the bridge to merit a touch of revisionism, not to say nostalgia.Not all of the 50 objects Idov has catalogued in Made in Russia are great designs \u2013 in fact, very few are \u2013 but they have an endearing charm now that no one is forced to live with them. There's the reflector electrical heater, a mini satellite dish with a scarcely protected filament that was only so-so at warming you up, but highly effective at starting fires. In a similar vein, the boiling wand was a traveller's kettle that you put into water instead of the other way round: it made a mean cuppa and could black out an entire city block. Then there are objects at once familiar and alien, such as the diplomatic telephone with no dial, like a face with no features (\"unheimlich\", Freud would call it: uncanny). Another is the Tonika electric guitar, strangely amoeboid and famously unplayable.Perhaps a truer depiction of Soviet design, however, is not the comedy of errors described above but a weird mirror image of the west. When Khruschev dismissed American domestic superiority at the Kitchen Debate, the irony was that the only templates trusted by the Russian authorities when it came to design were western ones. Soviet design was a world of reverse-engineered knock-offs. The most notorious case is the Vyatka scooter, an ersatz Vespa, which even borrowed the same font for its logo. Similarly, the Vesna portable cassette player imitated Japanese models, while the Elektronika handheld video game was a rip-off of Nintendo's Game and Watch console \u2013 although Idov reminds us that the Soviets did give us Tetris.What went wrong for Soviet design? It started so promisingly. In the two decades after the Bolshevik revolution the constructivists were reimagining almost every aspect of daily life, from clothing to architecture. What spelled the end of design after the second world war \u2013 ironically, just as American consumer culture was coming into its own \u2013 was the entrenchment of a bureaucratic cadre. And here there is a backstory to Made in Russia that Idov only hints at. Imagine a system in which nothing could be released on the market without the stamp of the VNIITE, the Soviet industrial design institute. And imagine if the VNIITE's method of certifying a design was to compare it with its closest western counterpart. Suddenly, all that flagrant copying makes sense. Originality was discouraged; the bureaucrats had no way to judge it. Somewhere in the VNIITE archives there may just be a parallel world of Soviet design that exists only on paper. I, for one, would love to see it.Of course, there was another essential flaw in the USSR's design ambitions: the lack of competition. Where was the incentive for a company to improve a product when there was no alternative for consumers to turn to? At the same time, if you'd just reached the end of a six-month waiting list for a fridge, or a 10-year waiting list for a Zaporozhets car, you'd be so happy to finally have one that your critical faculties might not be at their sharpest.There were some genuinely classic designs, though. The Lomo camera, with its super-saturated film, is still hugely popular in an otherwise digital world. The avos shopping bag, essentially a string vest with handles, was ubiquitous and remains far preferable to plastic bags, just as the collapsible portable cup is preferable to millions of plastic and polystyrene ones. The ribbed drinking glass, meanwhile, and the Saturna and Raketa vacuum cleaners, simply lasted for ever. We may mock Soviet design, but there are lessons to heed from it. Durability, for one. In our disposable culture, rapid replacement cycles have almost inured us to the idea that nothing lasts. Such is the price, apparently, of free enterprise and consumer choice.As it happens, I was in Moscow last week, and I wondered whether the arrival of capitalism had solved all these problems. I dropped in on the Art Lebedev Studio, Russia's largest design agency with a staff of 200, and spoke to one of its art directors, Timur Burbayev. While the situation has improved, he says, the problem is education. Many of the teachers at the design schools are relics of the Soviet era, with no practical experience of design in the real world and no connections to the industry. \"At the Stroganoff University, the first project they set the students is to design something in the style of Russian constructivism,\" says Burbayev.However, one thing has changed: designers can now take power into their own hands. Burbayev gave me two incredible examples. In 2007 the Russian central bank held a competition to design a symbol for the ruble, which has never had one. Instead of waiting for the government to choose, 26 of the best design firms in Russia chose a design among themselves, and agreed to make it a contractual obligation to use it as the symbol for the ruble in their work. It is now the de facto symbol for the currency, even though the government has never authorised it. Similarly, frustrated by the state of the Moscow subway map, which is ungainly and out-of-date (13 new stops have opened since it was designed), the Art Lebedev Studio created its own, and provided a free downloadable version to anyone who wanted to publish it. Consequently, it now appears in all kinds of guidebooks; but when metro staff are asked for a copy they are completely nonplussed. Which must be rather satisfying for the rebel designers. Where the bureaucrats once held an omnipotent grip on design, designers of the post-Soviet era have learned to turn the tables on them. From which we can conclude one of two things: either getting things done in new Russia means resorting to piratical tactics, or, with a free market and the internet, good design is just difficult to keep down.", "tags": ["Design", "Art and design", "Moscow holidays", "Russia holidays", "Culture"], "title": "Made in Russia: What we can learn from Soviet design"},{"date": "2011-06-19T16:33:31Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government wants to speed up and increase the size of the planned further privatisation of Rosneft, in the wake of the collapsed share swap with BP.Ministers were planning to sell down more of their 85% stake in the oil group on the Moscow and London stock markets in 2013 if the BP deal had gone through.Now they are looking at bringing this forward to next year and have said that they would be happy if BP bought shares in the company as part of a move that could see the government control falling below 50%.The plans were revealed in an exclusive interview given to the Guardian by Arkady Dvorkovich, chief economic policy adviser to Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian president.\"We want Rosneft to be a normal commercial public company,\" he said. \"The original government proposals were to start [the share sale] in 2013 but maybe now it will be brought forward to 2012.\"It's not up to me to say what the best timing would be. That is up to the company itself and investment banks working on this.\"Dvorkovich denied suggestions that the failure of BP to win the backing of its Russian shareholders inside TNK-BP for the Rosneft deal had frustrated the Kremlin. The collapse of the equity and Arctic drilling agreement was regrettable but not something that should be expected to blight the British company's future in Russia, he explained.\"It was not about politics but a business deal and it did not happen. But BP is one of the biggest Russian partners in the energy sector and we expect it to continue to play a major role in Russia and elsewhere.\"Dvorkovich was building on comments made on Friday by Medvedev when he opened the St Petersburg International Economic Forum.The president explained that the domination of state-owned companies had led to low entrepreneurial and low investment activity.\"Such an economic model poses a danger for the country's future. This is not my choice,\" Medvedev said in a speech interpreted by some as using fast-track economic development as an electioneering message for another term of office.Under previous plans, the government has talked about raising $10bn (\u00a36.2bn) annually from such sales over five years.But Dvorkovich said that figure might now be raised by 50% to $15bn, meaning the Kremlin could be looking at a target of up to $75bn over five years.He indicated that the money-raising might happen in London but alternatively could be done in New York, Hong Kong or even Shanghai \u2013 or a combination of these. He said initial or further privatisation was on the cards for the grid operator FGC, former pride of the Soviet industrialisation programme, which quietly listed some existing shares in London three months ago.There are similar possible plans for the shipping group Sovcomflot, banks such as VTB and possibly some airports.But there are no plans currently for privatising in a similar way the giant gas group Gazprom. Dvorkovich cited the complexity of the domestic energy market, where the company is a monopoly provider. He said Russia recognised that its companies needed to attract new technology, stronger management skills and more vibrant research and development.Rosneft would continue to talk to companies such as Shell about Arctic drilling deals but few expect the kind of share swap that had been proposed with BP.Dvorkovich said he believed Russia had made progress convincing the European Union that his country did not want to use energy as a political weapon.Turning off gas supplies to Ukraine in previous winters amid price rows never was about politics, said the government official. But he agreed that the Russian government was aware that some had interpreted it in that way, and this had damaged Russia and Gazprom.Dvorkovich also accepted that there was ongoing tension with Europe over Russia's refusal to open its markets up to foreign competition. This was a difficult issue but he said: \"We are trying to find a solution to this.\"Medvedev is also keen to build Moscow and regional cities as financial centres but accepts that corruption must be tackled and corporate governance standards improved to achieve this.", "tags": ["Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Commodities", "BP", "Energy industry", "Business", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia aims to speed up privatisation of oil group Rosneft"},{"date": "2011-06-07T16:37:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "An attempt by western powers to kickstart peace talks with the Taliban by overhauling the United Nations' sanction regime against the hardline movement and its al-Qaida allies hangs on whether Russia, India and China can be persuaded to drop their objections, a senior diplomat said.Germany's ambassador to the UN, Peter Wittig, said his country was engaged in \"intensive negotiations\" with foreign partners over a range of changes to the UN's \"1267 list\", a collection of 450 people deemed to be associated with the Taliban and al-Qaida.Under the proposed plans, two separate lists would be created, one for each militant organisation, giving the Afghan government much greater say over which Taliban would be on the new list, which - like the existing system - would make it hard for named individuals to travel internationally or to have a bank account.Wittig said the split would recognise the \"different fields of action\" between the two organisations, with the Taliban \"restricted basically to Afghanistan\" while al-Qaida operates globally. \"Separating those two things highlights the significance of the political efforts that are ongoing in Afghanistan,\" he said.Wittig said the Afghan government, which supports the changes, would be given greater control over a \"more flexible\" Taliban list.The negotiations about reform coincide with a request by the Afghan government to remove about 50 of the 138 names currently listed as Taliban. The proposed names are either no longer actively involved in the insurgency or are not regarded as posing a terrorist threat.Particularly significant are five individuals who are members of the High Peace Council, a body established by the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, to lay the grounds for peace talks. Last week the Guardian reported that the UK and US were backing the changes in the hope they would encourage the Taliban to engage in peace talks with Karzai's government.Wittig, who is also chairman of the UN's al-Qaida and Taliban sanctions committee, said the proposals - which include \"sunset clauses\" to prevent individuals languishing on the sanction list indefinitely - remained controversial with some of the 15 members, and unanimous agreement would have to be achieved by 17 June.Russia, which suffered heavy losses during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in the 1980s, is seen as the main block to the proposals. Moscow fears that the Taliban continues to maintain important links with al-Qaida, and is sceptical that the Islamist movement can be incorporated into a political settlement in Afghanistan.Wittig said the Russians were still open to discussions and Afghan officials would be lobbying Moscow to back the changes. It is hoped that the other leading doubters, India and China, will follow Russia's lead.It is unusual for the committee to consider delisting a large number of people with Taliban associations in one go. A decision on whether to remove them will be required by next Friday and Wittig predicted that it was very unlikely all of them would be struck off.Delisting has long been plagued with difficulties, including the problem of collecting accurate information on many individuals, some of whom are believed to have been dead for many years.\"We have to manage expectations,\" Wittig said. \"Not all of that 50 will be delisted but if we can come up with a couple of names that would send a good signal, I think.\"The sanctions, which were first imposed in 1999 when the Taliban was still in power, have long angered former high-ranking officials in the Taliban regime now living peacefully in Kabul.It is hoped that sanctions reform and the delisting will send a signal to insurgent leaders that the Afghan government is serious about allowing fighters to come out of hiding. It could also allow those with continued ties with the movement to travel to a proposed overseas Taliban \"office\" where it is hoped all sides of the conflict could hold discussions.", "tags": ["Taliban", "Afghanistan", "Russia", "Germany", "United Nations", "World news", "China", "India", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia 'key player' in move towards Afghanistan Taliban talks"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:15:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding has rightly been praised for his courageous reporting from Russia, but he is wrong to suggest others, including the BBC, do not tell difficult \"taboo\" stories (Weekend, 24 September).The BBC has been reporting from Moscow \u2013 in English and Russian \u2013 for more than 60 years. Over decades, many of my colleagues have been subjected to intimidation. Most have been detained by the authorities for some reason or another during stints in Russia \u2013 either in the North Caucasus or elsewhere. One colleague's home was bugged, while, at the height of Anglo-Russian tensions following the death of Alexander Litvinenko, three members of the BBC Russian team were \"attacked\" in mysterious circumstances over a period of 10 days. Their experience is hardly the treatment of those who pull their punches or obey \"informal rules\".Luke Harding is a fine reporter, but journalism is not a zero-sum game. He is not alone in showing courage and commitment in reporting from Russia \u2013 all deserve our thanks and respect.Jon WilliamsBBC World News Editor", "tags": ["BBC", "Media", "Journalist safety", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Reporting in Russia"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:15:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding has rightly been praised for his courageous reporting from Russia, but he is wrong to suggest others, including the BBC, do not tell difficult \"taboo\" stories (Weekend, 24 September).The BBC has been reporting from Moscow \u2013 in English and Russian \u2013 for more than 60 years. Over decades, many of my colleagues have been subjected to intimidation. Most have been detained by the authorities for some reason or another during stints in Russia \u2013 either in the North Caucasus or elsewhere. One colleague's home was bugged, while, at the height of Anglo-Russian tensions following the death of Alexander Litvinenko, three members of the BBC Russian team were \"attacked\" in mysterious circumstances over a period of 10 days. Their experience is hardly the treatment of those who pull their punches or obey \"informal rules\".Luke Harding is a fine reporter, but journalism is not a zero-sum game. He is not alone in showing courage and commitment in reporting from Russia \u2013 all deserve our thanks and respect.Jon WilliamsBBC World News Editor", "tags": ["BBC", "Media", "Journalist safety", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Reporting in Russia"},{"date": "2011-09-26T21:09:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Had Vladimir Putin cancelled next year's presidential election, the stage-managed announcement on Saturday that he and Medvedev would swap places as president and prime minister might have had the benefit of saving everyone in Russia and beyond a lot of time and money. No such luck. Russians are stuck with knowing the results of next year's election six months before it takes place and having to pay for the redundant process of affirmation. The opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta went one stage further on Monday by getting an artist to sketch what Putin and his cabinet would look like in 2024, after two more terms of a Putin\u00a0presidency.The model of traditional Russian statism is at least true to itself. If this is no time to vote, parliament is, as its current speaker admitted, no place for discussion. Which is just as well, because it is no place for independent political parties either. Nor in this system is there any room for independent trade unions, courts or national TV channels. The personalisation of power, the amount of money that the ruling elite has creamed off in their daily dealings, the corruption that lubricates every part of the state, the number of secrets shared has become so burdensome that Putin's problem is not keeping power. It is leaving it. The hole he has dug for himself is just too deep.Putin's enduring popularity provides, for some, a vindication of the way Russia is run. This is not a cause for congratulation. The problem is not that Putin has lost touch with his people. It is the reverse : that his brand of \"soft\" authoritarian rule is all too representative of his people and their deepest fears. After the turmoil of the Gorbachev and Yeltsin period, stability and rulers whose behaviour you can predict come at a higher premium than change. There are practical reasons for this. For some they are economic. Each new ruler entails a redistribution of economic wealth. A lot of banks and businesses were carved up after Yuri Luzhkov's departure as the boss of Moscow. Are they run better now? Hardly. For others they are political. After Putin lies what, fascism?The challenge posed by rulers who never go away is systemic. Touch one part of the vertical of power and the whole brittle structure collapses. There are professional economists who work within the system, but in the end, like Aleksei Kudrin, the finance minister who broke ranks on Sunday, or Andrei Illarionov before him, they are ejected. The system's inability to manage change, and the popular memory that change is only for the worse, are responsible for the emigration of Russia's best and brightest. Most never return. It is the only way of not growing old with Putin.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Russian presidential election 2012", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia: growing old with Putin | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:15:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding has rightly been praised for his courageous reporting from Russia, but he is wrong to suggest others, including the BBC, do not tell difficult \"taboo\" stories (Weekend, 24 September).The BBC has been reporting from Moscow \u2013 in English and Russian \u2013 for more than 60 years. Over decades, many of my colleagues have been subjected to intimidation. Most have been detained by the authorities for some reason or another during stints in Russia \u2013 either in the North Caucasus or elsewhere. One colleague's home was bugged, while, at the height of Anglo-Russian tensions following the death of Alexander Litvinenko, three members of the BBC Russian team were \"attacked\" in mysterious circumstances over a period of 10 days. Their experience is hardly the treatment of those who pull their punches or obey \"informal rules\".Luke Harding is a fine reporter, but journalism is not a zero-sum game. He is not alone in showing courage and commitment in reporting from Russia \u2013 all deserve our thanks and respect.Jon WilliamsBBC World News Editor", "tags": ["BBC", "Media", "Journalist safety", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Reporting in Russia"},{"date": "2011-09-26T21:09:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Had Vladimir Putin cancelled next year's presidential election, the stage-managed announcement on Saturday that he and Medvedev would swap places as president and prime minister might have had the benefit of saving everyone in Russia and beyond a lot of time and money. No such luck. Russians are stuck with knowing the results of next year's election six months before it takes place and having to pay for the redundant process of affirmation. The opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta went one stage further on Monday by getting an artist to sketch what Putin and his cabinet would look like in 2024, after two more terms of a Putin\u00a0presidency.The model of traditional Russian statism is at least true to itself. If this is no time to vote, parliament is, as its current speaker admitted, no place for discussion. Which is just as well, because it is no place for independent political parties either. Nor in this system is there any room for independent trade unions, courts or national TV channels. The personalisation of power, the amount of money that the ruling elite has creamed off in their daily dealings, the corruption that lubricates every part of the state, the number of secrets shared has become so burdensome that Putin's problem is not keeping power. It is leaving it. The hole he has dug for himself is just too deep.Putin's enduring popularity provides, for some, a vindication of the way Russia is run. This is not a cause for congratulation. The problem is not that Putin has lost touch with his people. It is the reverse : that his brand of \"soft\" authoritarian rule is all too representative of his people and their deepest fears. After the turmoil of the Gorbachev and Yeltsin period, stability and rulers whose behaviour you can predict come at a higher premium than change. There are practical reasons for this. For some they are economic. Each new ruler entails a redistribution of economic wealth. A lot of banks and businesses were carved up after Yuri Luzhkov's departure as the boss of Moscow. Are they run better now? Hardly. For others they are political. After Putin lies what, fascism?The challenge posed by rulers who never go away is systemic. Touch one part of the vertical of power and the whole brittle structure collapses. There are professional economists who work within the system, but in the end, like Aleksei Kudrin, the finance minister who broke ranks on Sunday, or Andrei Illarionov before him, they are ejected. The system's inability to manage change, and the popular memory that change is only for the worse, are responsible for the emigration of Russia's best and brightest. Most never return. It is the only way of not growing old with Putin.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Russian presidential election 2012", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia: growing old with Putin | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:44:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has rebuffed western attempts to increase the pressure on the Syrian regime, led by Bashar al-Assad, as new United Nations figures show at least 2,600 people have been killed since anti-government protests erupted in March.President Dmitry Medvedev said after talks with David Cameron that additional pressure was \"absolutely not needed\" because existing UN and European Union sanctions were squeezing the regime.Britain, the US and France have been pushing for tougher action by the UN but have met opposition from Russia and China, veto-wielding permanent members of the security council, and others.The latest UN casualty figures \u2013 400 more than previously given \u2013 were announced on Monday by the UN high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, who called the situation \"dire\" and again complained that Syria had refused access for a UN humanitarian assessment team.Syria has banned almost all journalists from entering the country but new images have emerged of killings, injuries and funerals of victims.One clip, [WARNING: Contains explicit images] posted by the Local Co-ordination Committees, appeared to show the final moments of a 14-year-old boy, Izzat al-Babidi, reportedly shot in the head during a demonstration in the Damascus suburb of Douma on Monday morning.Other pictures showed hundreds of people attending the funeral of another boy, Subhi Salam, who was fatally wounded by a sniper during protests last Friday.Pillay's figure of 2,600 dead was immediately contradicted by a senior aide to Assad, Bouthaina Shaaban. \"There are 700 casualties among the army and the police, and 700 among the rebels,\" she said in Moscow. \"We have a list [of the victims' names], and we can provide it.\"Shaaban's visit was part of an attempt by Syria to stave off any danger that its Russian ally would abandon it. Medvedev appeared to show that he would stand firm, calling for a \"well-balanced position between both parties to the conflict, the Syrian government and the rebels\". This was a far cry from the now firm western position that Assad has lost all legitimacy. Russia's support brought a call from Syrian opposition activists for a \"day of anger\".Al-Arabiya TV quoted opposition sources as claiming that Syrian military aircraft had been flying low over the central city of Homs, where many have died in recent weeks. Syrian activists describe fighting in the nearby Rastan area between army defectors and loyalists, and an incipient \"low-intensity civil war\", with Islamists smuggling in weapons from abroad.The Saudi-owned channel also reported three clergymen from the Assad family's Alawite sect in Homs as distancing themselves from the \"atrocities\" carried out by the regime. This week, opposition figures plan to unveil the final makeup of the Syrian National Council, a broad coalition of different anti-Assad groups.", "tags": ["Syria", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Russia", "World news", "China", "Europe", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations", "European Union", "Dmitry Medvedev", "France", "Brazil", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia refuses more Syria sanctions"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:15:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding has rightly been praised for his courageous reporting from Russia, but he is wrong to suggest others, including the BBC, do not tell difficult \"taboo\" stories (Weekend, 24 September).The BBC has been reporting from Moscow \u2013 in English and Russian \u2013 for more than 60 years. Over decades, many of my colleagues have been subjected to intimidation. Most have been detained by the authorities for some reason or another during stints in Russia \u2013 either in the North Caucasus or elsewhere. One colleague's home was bugged, while, at the height of Anglo-Russian tensions following the death of Alexander Litvinenko, three members of the BBC Russian team were \"attacked\" in mysterious circumstances over a period of 10 days. Their experience is hardly the treatment of those who pull their punches or obey \"informal rules\".Luke Harding is a fine reporter, but journalism is not a zero-sum game. He is not alone in showing courage and commitment in reporting from Russia \u2013 all deserve our thanks and respect.Jon WilliamsBBC World News Editor", "tags": ["BBC", "Media", "Journalist safety", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Reporting in Russia"},{"date": "2011-09-26T21:09:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Had Vladimir Putin cancelled next year's presidential election, the stage-managed announcement on Saturday that he and Medvedev would swap places as president and prime minister might have had the benefit of saving everyone in Russia and beyond a lot of time and money. No such luck. Russians are stuck with knowing the results of next year's election six months before it takes place and having to pay for the redundant process of affirmation. The opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta went one stage further on Monday by getting an artist to sketch what Putin and his cabinet would look like in 2024, after two more terms of a Putin\u00a0presidency.The model of traditional Russian statism is at least true to itself. If this is no time to vote, parliament is, as its current speaker admitted, no place for discussion. Which is just as well, because it is no place for independent political parties either. Nor in this system is there any room for independent trade unions, courts or national TV channels. The personalisation of power, the amount of money that the ruling elite has creamed off in their daily dealings, the corruption that lubricates every part of the state, the number of secrets shared has become so burdensome that Putin's problem is not keeping power. It is leaving it. The hole he has dug for himself is just too deep.Putin's enduring popularity provides, for some, a vindication of the way Russia is run. This is not a cause for congratulation. The problem is not that Putin has lost touch with his people. It is the reverse : that his brand of \"soft\" authoritarian rule is all too representative of his people and their deepest fears. After the turmoil of the Gorbachev and Yeltsin period, stability and rulers whose behaviour you can predict come at a higher premium than change. There are practical reasons for this. For some they are economic. Each new ruler entails a redistribution of economic wealth. A lot of banks and businesses were carved up after Yuri Luzhkov's departure as the boss of Moscow. Are they run better now? Hardly. For others they are political. After Putin lies what, fascism?The challenge posed by rulers who never go away is systemic. Touch one part of the vertical of power and the whole brittle structure collapses. There are professional economists who work within the system, but in the end, like Aleksei Kudrin, the finance minister who broke ranks on Sunday, or Andrei Illarionov before him, they are ejected. The system's inability to manage change, and the popular memory that change is only for the worse, are responsible for the emigration of Russia's best and brightest. Most never return. It is the only way of not growing old with Putin.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Russian presidential election 2012", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia: growing old with Putin | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:44:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has rebuffed western attempts to increase the pressure on the Syrian regime, led by Bashar al-Assad, as new United Nations figures show at least 2,600 people have been killed since anti-government protests erupted in March.President Dmitry Medvedev said after talks with David Cameron that additional pressure was \"absolutely not needed\" because existing UN and European Union sanctions were squeezing the regime.Britain, the US and France have been pushing for tougher action by the UN but have met opposition from Russia and China, veto-wielding permanent members of the security council, and others.The latest UN casualty figures \u2013 400 more than previously given \u2013 were announced on Monday by the UN high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, who called the situation \"dire\" and again complained that Syria had refused access for a UN humanitarian assessment team.Syria has banned almost all journalists from entering the country but new images have emerged of killings, injuries and funerals of victims.One clip, [WARNING: Contains explicit images] posted by the Local Co-ordination Committees, appeared to show the final moments of a 14-year-old boy, Izzat al-Babidi, reportedly shot in the head during a demonstration in the Damascus suburb of Douma on Monday morning.Other pictures showed hundreds of people attending the funeral of another boy, Subhi Salam, who was fatally wounded by a sniper during protests last Friday.Pillay's figure of 2,600 dead was immediately contradicted by a senior aide to Assad, Bouthaina Shaaban. \"There are 700 casualties among the army and the police, and 700 among the rebels,\" she said in Moscow. \"We have a list [of the victims' names], and we can provide it.\"Shaaban's visit was part of an attempt by Syria to stave off any danger that its Russian ally would abandon it. Medvedev appeared to show that he would stand firm, calling for a \"well-balanced position between both parties to the conflict, the Syrian government and the rebels\". This was a far cry from the now firm western position that Assad has lost all legitimacy. Russia's support brought a call from Syrian opposition activists for a \"day of anger\".Al-Arabiya TV quoted opposition sources as claiming that Syrian military aircraft had been flying low over the central city of Homs, where many have died in recent weeks. Syrian activists describe fighting in the nearby Rastan area between army defectors and loyalists, and an incipient \"low-intensity civil war\", with Islamists smuggling in weapons from abroad.The Saudi-owned channel also reported three clergymen from the Assad family's Alawite sect in Homs as distancing themselves from the \"atrocities\" carried out by the regime. This week, opposition figures plan to unveil the final makeup of the Syrian National Council, a broad coalition of different anti-Assad groups.", "tags": ["Syria", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Russia", "World news", "China", "Europe", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations", "European Union", "Dmitry Medvedev", "France", "Brazil", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia refuses more Syria sanctions"},{"date": "2011-09-14T19:15:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is poised to save Cyprus from financial meltdown with a \u20ac2.5bn (\u00a32.2bn) loan that will enable it to pay maturing debt and deal with its burgeoning budget deficit.The crisis-hit island's communist government is close to successfully concluding negotiations with Moscow \u2013 a move that will quash fears of Cyprus having to resort to rescue loans from the EU.\"It will not solve public finance or other problems in the state sector, but it will help us better deal with issues of liquidity,\" said the country's finance minister, Kikis Kazamias. \"With the situation that exists in world markets and the difficulties we face with bonds, we don't have the luxury of choosing our lenders.\"Like Greece, Cyprus is in effect locked out of international capital markets because it would be charged prohibitively high borrowing rates following a series of credit downgrades. Agencies have cited the island's overstretched banking system and its exposure to debt-stricken Athens. The Cypriot economy was strained further by a devastating munitions explosion in July that knocked out electricity supplies and sparked fears that Nicosia would soon have to follow Portugal, Ireland and Greece in being bailed out by the EU.The EU's most easterly member, Cyprus accounts for 0.2% of the eurozone's total economy. About \u20ac1bn of government debt will mature at the beginning of 2012.Russia, which on Wednesday ruled out increasing holdings in the eurozone before Europe came up with a clear strategy to save its debt-burdened states, is thought to have agreed to a five-year loan with an annual interest rate of 4.5% \u2013 well below that offered even by the former British colony's financial institutions.\"Eurozone countries have not approached us in general [for aid],\" Moscow's finance minister, Alexei Kudrin, told an investment conference sponsored by Reuters.\"We are holding talks only with Cyprus. We have good progress at talks. They will conclude within one month.\"The emergency loan reflects the two countries' close relations. Favoured by oligarchs because of its low taxes, Cyprus is a popular destination for Russian capital and has a large Russian community.Even before the island's entry to the EU, the vast majority of its 14,000 offshore companies were Russian-owned, according to the Global Policy Forum. An estimated $18.7bn of foreign investment from Russian sources was poured into local banks last May alone.Under President Demetris Christofias's communist Akel party, ties with Moscow have improved considerably, with the government going out of its way to award citizenship to Russians depositing large amounts in banks.Like many members of Akel, Christofias studied in Moscow and is a fluent Russian speaker. \"He is very proud of his communist affiliations and deeply fond of Russia,\" said a seasoned observer of Cyprus affairs. \"It's where his heart lies.\"But the prospect of being rescued by Russia has also been criticised with lawmakers worrying it will entice the government into eschewing crucial structural and fiscal reforms vital to streamlining a profligate public sector and overhauling the Cypriot economy.\"This will help stave off the immediate danger of default but it doesn't solve our economic problems, it just pushes them down the road,\" said Nicholas Papadopoulos a local parliamentarian with the centre-right Diko party.", "tags": ["Cyprus", "Europe", "Banking", "Business", "Credit crunch", "Financial crisis", "Russia", "Economics", "Global economy", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia prepared to ride to Nicosia's aid"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:15:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding has rightly been praised for his courageous reporting from Russia, but he is wrong to suggest others, including the BBC, do not tell difficult \"taboo\" stories (Weekend, 24 September).The BBC has been reporting from Moscow \u2013 in English and Russian \u2013 for more than 60 years. Over decades, many of my colleagues have been subjected to intimidation. Most have been detained by the authorities for some reason or another during stints in Russia \u2013 either in the North Caucasus or elsewhere. One colleague's home was bugged, while, at the height of Anglo-Russian tensions following the death of Alexander Litvinenko, three members of the BBC Russian team were \"attacked\" in mysterious circumstances over a period of 10 days. Their experience is hardly the treatment of those who pull their punches or obey \"informal rules\".Luke Harding is a fine reporter, but journalism is not a zero-sum game. He is not alone in showing courage and commitment in reporting from Russia \u2013 all deserve our thanks and respect.Jon WilliamsBBC World News Editor", "tags": ["BBC", "Media", "Journalist safety", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Reporting in Russia"},{"date": "2011-09-26T21:09:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Had Vladimir Putin cancelled next year's presidential election, the stage-managed announcement on Saturday that he and Medvedev would swap places as president and prime minister might have had the benefit of saving everyone in Russia and beyond a lot of time and money. No such luck. Russians are stuck with knowing the results of next year's election six months before it takes place and having to pay for the redundant process of affirmation. The opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta went one stage further on Monday by getting an artist to sketch what Putin and his cabinet would look like in 2024, after two more terms of a Putin\u00a0presidency.The model of traditional Russian statism is at least true to itself. If this is no time to vote, parliament is, as its current speaker admitted, no place for discussion. Which is just as well, because it is no place for independent political parties either. Nor in this system is there any room for independent trade unions, courts or national TV channels. The personalisation of power, the amount of money that the ruling elite has creamed off in their daily dealings, the corruption that lubricates every part of the state, the number of secrets shared has become so burdensome that Putin's problem is not keeping power. It is leaving it. The hole he has dug for himself is just too deep.Putin's enduring popularity provides, for some, a vindication of the way Russia is run. This is not a cause for congratulation. The problem is not that Putin has lost touch with his people. It is the reverse : that his brand of \"soft\" authoritarian rule is all too representative of his people and their deepest fears. After the turmoil of the Gorbachev and Yeltsin period, stability and rulers whose behaviour you can predict come at a higher premium than change. There are practical reasons for this. For some they are economic. Each new ruler entails a redistribution of economic wealth. A lot of banks and businesses were carved up after Yuri Luzhkov's departure as the boss of Moscow. Are they run better now? Hardly. For others they are political. After Putin lies what, fascism?The challenge posed by rulers who never go away is systemic. Touch one part of the vertical of power and the whole brittle structure collapses. There are professional economists who work within the system, but in the end, like Aleksei Kudrin, the finance minister who broke ranks on Sunday, or Andrei Illarionov before him, they are ejected. The system's inability to manage change, and the popular memory that change is only for the worse, are responsible for the emigration of Russia's best and brightest. Most never return. It is the only way of not growing old with Putin.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Russian presidential election 2012", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia: growing old with Putin | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:44:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has rebuffed western attempts to increase the pressure on the Syrian regime, led by Bashar al-Assad, as new United Nations figures show at least 2,600 people have been killed since anti-government protests erupted in March.President Dmitry Medvedev said after talks with David Cameron that additional pressure was \"absolutely not needed\" because existing UN and European Union sanctions were squeezing the regime.Britain, the US and France have been pushing for tougher action by the UN but have met opposition from Russia and China, veto-wielding permanent members of the security council, and others.The latest UN casualty figures \u2013 400 more than previously given \u2013 were announced on Monday by the UN high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, who called the situation \"dire\" and again complained that Syria had refused access for a UN humanitarian assessment team.Syria has banned almost all journalists from entering the country but new images have emerged of killings, injuries and funerals of victims.One clip, [WARNING: Contains explicit images] posted by the Local Co-ordination Committees, appeared to show the final moments of a 14-year-old boy, Izzat al-Babidi, reportedly shot in the head during a demonstration in the Damascus suburb of Douma on Monday morning.Other pictures showed hundreds of people attending the funeral of another boy, Subhi Salam, who was fatally wounded by a sniper during protests last Friday.Pillay's figure of 2,600 dead was immediately contradicted by a senior aide to Assad, Bouthaina Shaaban. \"There are 700 casualties among the army and the police, and 700 among the rebels,\" she said in Moscow. \"We have a list [of the victims' names], and we can provide it.\"Shaaban's visit was part of an attempt by Syria to stave off any danger that its Russian ally would abandon it. Medvedev appeared to show that he would stand firm, calling for a \"well-balanced position between both parties to the conflict, the Syrian government and the rebels\". This was a far cry from the now firm western position that Assad has lost all legitimacy. Russia's support brought a call from Syrian opposition activists for a \"day of anger\".Al-Arabiya TV quoted opposition sources as claiming that Syrian military aircraft had been flying low over the central city of Homs, where many have died in recent weeks. Syrian activists describe fighting in the nearby Rastan area between army defectors and loyalists, and an incipient \"low-intensity civil war\", with Islamists smuggling in weapons from abroad.The Saudi-owned channel also reported three clergymen from the Assad family's Alawite sect in Homs as distancing themselves from the \"atrocities\" carried out by the regime. This week, opposition figures plan to unveil the final makeup of the Syrian National Council, a broad coalition of different anti-Assad groups.", "tags": ["Syria", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Russia", "World news", "China", "Europe", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations", "European Union", "Dmitry Medvedev", "France", "Brazil", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia refuses more Syria sanctions"},{"date": "2011-09-14T19:15:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is poised to save Cyprus from financial meltdown with a \u20ac2.5bn (\u00a32.2bn) loan that will enable it to pay maturing debt and deal with its burgeoning budget deficit.The crisis-hit island's communist government is close to successfully concluding negotiations with Moscow \u2013 a move that will quash fears of Cyprus having to resort to rescue loans from the EU.\"It will not solve public finance or other problems in the state sector, but it will help us better deal with issues of liquidity,\" said the country's finance minister, Kikis Kazamias. \"With the situation that exists in world markets and the difficulties we face with bonds, we don't have the luxury of choosing our lenders.\"Like Greece, Cyprus is in effect locked out of international capital markets because it would be charged prohibitively high borrowing rates following a series of credit downgrades. Agencies have cited the island's overstretched banking system and its exposure to debt-stricken Athens. The Cypriot economy was strained further by a devastating munitions explosion in July that knocked out electricity supplies and sparked fears that Nicosia would soon have to follow Portugal, Ireland and Greece in being bailed out by the EU.The EU's most easterly member, Cyprus accounts for 0.2% of the eurozone's total economy. About \u20ac1bn of government debt will mature at the beginning of 2012.Russia, which on Wednesday ruled out increasing holdings in the eurozone before Europe came up with a clear strategy to save its debt-burdened states, is thought to have agreed to a five-year loan with an annual interest rate of 4.5% \u2013 well below that offered even by the former British colony's financial institutions.\"Eurozone countries have not approached us in general [for aid],\" Moscow's finance minister, Alexei Kudrin, told an investment conference sponsored by Reuters.\"We are holding talks only with Cyprus. We have good progress at talks. They will conclude within one month.\"The emergency loan reflects the two countries' close relations. Favoured by oligarchs because of its low taxes, Cyprus is a popular destination for Russian capital and has a large Russian community.Even before the island's entry to the EU, the vast majority of its 14,000 offshore companies were Russian-owned, according to the Global Policy Forum. An estimated $18.7bn of foreign investment from Russian sources was poured into local banks last May alone.Under President Demetris Christofias's communist Akel party, ties with Moscow have improved considerably, with the government going out of its way to award citizenship to Russians depositing large amounts in banks.Like many members of Akel, Christofias studied in Moscow and is a fluent Russian speaker. \"He is very proud of his communist affiliations and deeply fond of Russia,\" said a seasoned observer of Cyprus affairs. \"It's where his heart lies.\"But the prospect of being rescued by Russia has also been criticised with lawmakers worrying it will entice the government into eschewing crucial structural and fiscal reforms vital to streamlining a profligate public sector and overhauling the Cypriot economy.\"This will help stave off the immediate danger of default but it doesn't solve our economic problems, it just pushes them down the road,\" said Nicholas Papadopoulos a local parliamentarian with the centre-right Diko party.", "tags": ["Cyprus", "Europe", "Banking", "Business", "Credit crunch", "Financial crisis", "Russia", "Economics", "Global economy", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia prepared to ride to Nicosia's aid"},{"date": "2011-09-25T17:10:59Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Spare a thought for poor Dmitry Medvedev. It was US diplomats who back in November 2008 cruelly dubbed him Robin, to Vladimir Putin's Batman.The phrase stuck. Over the past four years Medvedev has done nothing to dispel the impression that he is anything other than a useful seatwarmer, his time in the Kremlin a legalistic blip in an epoch of endless Putin rule.It wasn't always like this. At the start of Medvedev's presidential term there were faint hopes that he might preside over a partial liberalisation of Russian society. The president himself spoke of ending \"legal nihilism\". Commentators, meanwhile, scrambled to make sense of Russia's historically anomalous ruling arrangement \u2013 the \"tandem\", as it became known.In the shadow world of Kremlin politics it was hard to work out what was going on behind the scenes. Some looked in vain for signs of an intra-leadership struggle. Others speculated that Medvedev might eventually escape from Putin's gravitational pull, or even fire his mentor.The Obama administration tried to reach out to Medvedev in the hope this would nudge Russia's foreign policy away from its hawkish Putin vector towards a more constructive approach. By 2010, however, US diplomats had concluded that Project Medvedev was hopeless.Medvedev's position became one of humiliation. I heard one expert describe Russia's ruling model not as a tandem but as \"a bicycle with a child's seat in the front\".US diplomats even cabled back to Washington the following joke: Medvedev sits in the driver's seat of a new car, examines the inside, the instrument panel, and the pedals. He looks around but the steering wheel is missing.He turns to Putin and asks: \"Vladimir Vladimirovich, where is the steering wheel?\" Putin pulls a remote control out of his pocket and says: \"I'll be the one doing the driving.\"Medvedev's announcement on Saturday that he was stepping down to allow Putin a third presidency came as a surprise to no one, then. Medvedev's only significant act as president was to extend Russia's presidential term from four years to six, hardly a democratic step forwards. This was seen, rightly, as teeing up the conditions for a triumphant comeback during elections in the spring of 2012: Putin's.So what now? Putin's return means the west faces another decade of difficult relations with Russia. During his first two stints as president, the former KGB agent demonstrated his gift at G8 gatherings and other international get-togethers for sardonic repartee mixed with snide remarks about western hypocrisy and double-dealing. We can expect more of this.There is no prospect of any real improvement in UK-Russian relations. David Cameron did manage to meet Putin this month during his trip to Moscow, the first contact with him for four years. But until Downing Street caves in to the Kremlin's demand that it resumes co-operation with Russia's FSB spy agency \u2013 suspended after Alexander Litvinenko's polonium murder \u2013 no \"reset\" is possible.The prospects for Russia itself are equally gloomy. The country now faces a long period of political and economic stagnation and single-party rule. Increasingly the Putin era resembles that of the Soviet Union under Leonid Brezhnev, another too-long authoritarian period sustained by a commodities boom, which left ordinary citizens frustrated. Increasing numbers of talented but Disenfranchised Russians are voting with their feet and moving abroad.In theory Putin could go on until 2024, when he will be 72. Or longer.This week, however, the blogger and anti-corruption campaigner Alexey Navalny predicted that Russia's kleptocractic system would collapse well before that. \"People now realise it doesn't work. It worked between 2000-2005. There was stability up until 2008,\" he said. \"But now it's useless, even for the corrupt people who benefit from it.\"With no political mechanism for removing Putin from power, Navalny said, another Russian revolution was inevitable. At some point, he said, frustrations would boil over. \"Maybe in five months, maybe in two years, maybe in seven years,\" he said. Asked what would spark it, he suggested: \"The Caucasus.\"Many observers have plausibly argued that Putin is tired of being leader. So why did he come back? The Kremlin, of course, is more prestigious that then prime minister's office, and gives Putin an international platform. More than this, though, it allows Putin to protect his own alleged secret assets and those of his team, US diplomats believe. And it allows him to avoid potential law enforcement prosecution \u2013 inevitable, once he steps down from power.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Vladimir Putin's comeback spells gloom for Russia and the west"},{"date": "2011-09-28T22:15:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Luke Harding has rightly been praised for his courageous reporting from Russia, but he is wrong to suggest others, including the BBC, do not tell difficult \"taboo\" stories (Weekend, 24 September).The BBC has been reporting from Moscow \u2013 in English and Russian \u2013 for more than 60 years. Over decades, many of my colleagues have been subjected to intimidation. Most have been detained by the authorities for some reason or another during stints in Russia \u2013 either in the North Caucasus or elsewhere. One colleague's home was bugged, while, at the height of Anglo-Russian tensions following the death of Alexander Litvinenko, three members of the BBC Russian team were \"attacked\" in mysterious circumstances over a period of 10 days. Their experience is hardly the treatment of those who pull their punches or obey \"informal rules\".Luke Harding is a fine reporter, but journalism is not a zero-sum game. He is not alone in showing courage and commitment in reporting from Russia \u2013 all deserve our thanks and respect.Jon WilliamsBBC World News Editor", "tags": ["BBC", "Media", "Journalist safety", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Letters: Reporting in Russia"},{"date": "2011-09-26T21:09:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Had Vladimir Putin cancelled next year's presidential election, the stage-managed announcement on Saturday that he and Medvedev would swap places as president and prime minister might have had the benefit of saving everyone in Russia and beyond a lot of time and money. No such luck. Russians are stuck with knowing the results of next year's election six months before it takes place and having to pay for the redundant process of affirmation. The opposition newspaper Novaya Gazeta went one stage further on Monday by getting an artist to sketch what Putin and his cabinet would look like in 2024, after two more terms of a Putin\u00a0presidency.The model of traditional Russian statism is at least true to itself. If this is no time to vote, parliament is, as its current speaker admitted, no place for discussion. Which is just as well, because it is no place for independent political parties either. Nor in this system is there any room for independent trade unions, courts or national TV channels. The personalisation of power, the amount of money that the ruling elite has creamed off in their daily dealings, the corruption that lubricates every part of the state, the number of secrets shared has become so burdensome that Putin's problem is not keeping power. It is leaving it. The hole he has dug for himself is just too deep.Putin's enduring popularity provides, for some, a vindication of the way Russia is run. This is not a cause for congratulation. The problem is not that Putin has lost touch with his people. It is the reverse : that his brand of \"soft\" authoritarian rule is all too representative of his people and their deepest fears. After the turmoil of the Gorbachev and Yeltsin period, stability and rulers whose behaviour you can predict come at a higher premium than change. There are practical reasons for this. For some they are economic. Each new ruler entails a redistribution of economic wealth. A lot of banks and businesses were carved up after Yuri Luzhkov's departure as the boss of Moscow. Are they run better now? Hardly. For others they are political. After Putin lies what, fascism?The challenge posed by rulers who never go away is systemic. Touch one part of the vertical of power and the whole brittle structure collapses. There are professional economists who work within the system, but in the end, like Aleksei Kudrin, the finance minister who broke ranks on Sunday, or Andrei Illarionov before him, they are ejected. The system's inability to manage change, and the popular memory that change is only for the worse, are responsible for the emigration of Russia's best and brightest. Most never return. It is the only way of not growing old with Putin.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Russian presidential election 2012", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia: growing old with Putin | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:44:37Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has rebuffed western attempts to increase the pressure on the Syrian regime, led by Bashar al-Assad, as new United Nations figures show at least 2,600 people have been killed since anti-government protests erupted in March.President Dmitry Medvedev said after talks with David Cameron that additional pressure was \"absolutely not needed\" because existing UN and European Union sanctions were squeezing the regime.Britain, the US and France have been pushing for tougher action by the UN but have met opposition from Russia and China, veto-wielding permanent members of the security council, and others.The latest UN casualty figures \u2013 400 more than previously given \u2013 were announced on Monday by the UN high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, who called the situation \"dire\" and again complained that Syria had refused access for a UN humanitarian assessment team.Syria has banned almost all journalists from entering the country but new images have emerged of killings, injuries and funerals of victims.One clip, [WARNING: Contains explicit images] posted by the Local Co-ordination Committees, appeared to show the final moments of a 14-year-old boy, Izzat al-Babidi, reportedly shot in the head during a demonstration in the Damascus suburb of Douma on Monday morning.Other pictures showed hundreds of people attending the funeral of another boy, Subhi Salam, who was fatally wounded by a sniper during protests last Friday.Pillay's figure of 2,600 dead was immediately contradicted by a senior aide to Assad, Bouthaina Shaaban. \"There are 700 casualties among the army and the police, and 700 among the rebels,\" she said in Moscow. \"We have a list [of the victims' names], and we can provide it.\"Shaaban's visit was part of an attempt by Syria to stave off any danger that its Russian ally would abandon it. Medvedev appeared to show that he would stand firm, calling for a \"well-balanced position between both parties to the conflict, the Syrian government and the rebels\". This was a far cry from the now firm western position that Assad has lost all legitimacy. Russia's support brought a call from Syrian opposition activists for a \"day of anger\".Al-Arabiya TV quoted opposition sources as claiming that Syrian military aircraft had been flying low over the central city of Homs, where many have died in recent weeks. Syrian activists describe fighting in the nearby Rastan area between army defectors and loyalists, and an incipient \"low-intensity civil war\", with Islamists smuggling in weapons from abroad.The Saudi-owned channel also reported three clergymen from the Assad family's Alawite sect in Homs as distancing themselves from the \"atrocities\" carried out by the regime. This week, opposition figures plan to unveil the final makeup of the Syrian National Council, a broad coalition of different anti-Assad groups.", "tags": ["Syria", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Russia", "World news", "China", "Europe", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations", "European Union", "Dmitry Medvedev", "France", "Brazil", "Asia Pacific", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia refuses more Syria sanctions"},{"date": "2011-09-14T19:15:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is poised to save Cyprus from financial meltdown with a \u20ac2.5bn (\u00a32.2bn) loan that will enable it to pay maturing debt and deal with its burgeoning budget deficit.The crisis-hit island's communist government is close to successfully concluding negotiations with Moscow \u2013 a move that will quash fears of Cyprus having to resort to rescue loans from the EU.\"It will not solve public finance or other problems in the state sector, but it will help us better deal with issues of liquidity,\" said the country's finance minister, Kikis Kazamias. \"With the situation that exists in world markets and the difficulties we face with bonds, we don't have the luxury of choosing our lenders.\"Like Greece, Cyprus is in effect locked out of international capital markets because it would be charged prohibitively high borrowing rates following a series of credit downgrades. Agencies have cited the island's overstretched banking system and its exposure to debt-stricken Athens. The Cypriot economy was strained further by a devastating munitions explosion in July that knocked out electricity supplies and sparked fears that Nicosia would soon have to follow Portugal, Ireland and Greece in being bailed out by the EU.The EU's most easterly member, Cyprus accounts for 0.2% of the eurozone's total economy. About \u20ac1bn of government debt will mature at the beginning of 2012.Russia, which on Wednesday ruled out increasing holdings in the eurozone before Europe came up with a clear strategy to save its debt-burdened states, is thought to have agreed to a five-year loan with an annual interest rate of 4.5% \u2013 well below that offered even by the former British colony's financial institutions.\"Eurozone countries have not approached us in general [for aid],\" Moscow's finance minister, Alexei Kudrin, told an investment conference sponsored by Reuters.\"We are holding talks only with Cyprus. We have good progress at talks. They will conclude within one month.\"The emergency loan reflects the two countries' close relations. Favoured by oligarchs because of its low taxes, Cyprus is a popular destination for Russian capital and has a large Russian community.Even before the island's entry to the EU, the vast majority of its 14,000 offshore companies were Russian-owned, according to the Global Policy Forum. An estimated $18.7bn of foreign investment from Russian sources was poured into local banks last May alone.Under President Demetris Christofias's communist Akel party, ties with Moscow have improved considerably, with the government going out of its way to award citizenship to Russians depositing large amounts in banks.Like many members of Akel, Christofias studied in Moscow and is a fluent Russian speaker. \"He is very proud of his communist affiliations and deeply fond of Russia,\" said a seasoned observer of Cyprus affairs. \"It's where his heart lies.\"But the prospect of being rescued by Russia has also been criticised with lawmakers worrying it will entice the government into eschewing crucial structural and fiscal reforms vital to streamlining a profligate public sector and overhauling the Cypriot economy.\"This will help stave off the immediate danger of default but it doesn't solve our economic problems, it just pushes them down the road,\" said Nicholas Papadopoulos a local parliamentarian with the centre-right Diko party.", "tags": ["Cyprus", "Europe", "Banking", "Business", "Credit crunch", "Financial crisis", "Russia", "Economics", "Global economy", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Russia prepared to ride to Nicosia's aid"},{"date": "2011-09-25T17:10:59Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Spare a thought for poor Dmitry Medvedev. It was US diplomats who back in November 2008 cruelly dubbed him Robin, to Vladimir Putin's Batman.The phrase stuck. Over the past four years Medvedev has done nothing to dispel the impression that he is anything other than a useful seatwarmer, his time in the Kremlin a legalistic blip in an epoch of endless Putin rule.It wasn't always like this. At the start of Medvedev's presidential term there were faint hopes that he might preside over a partial liberalisation of Russian society. The president himself spoke of ending \"legal nihilism\". Commentators, meanwhile, scrambled to make sense of Russia's historically anomalous ruling arrangement \u2013 the \"tandem\", as it became known.In the shadow world of Kremlin politics it was hard to work out what was going on behind the scenes. Some looked in vain for signs of an intra-leadership struggle. Others speculated that Medvedev might eventually escape from Putin's gravitational pull, or even fire his mentor.The Obama administration tried to reach out to Medvedev in the hope this would nudge Russia's foreign policy away from its hawkish Putin vector towards a more constructive approach. By 2010, however, US diplomats had concluded that Project Medvedev was hopeless.Medvedev's position became one of humiliation. I heard one expert describe Russia's ruling model not as a tandem but as \"a bicycle with a child's seat in the front\".US diplomats even cabled back to Washington the following joke: Medvedev sits in the driver's seat of a new car, examines the inside, the instrument panel, and the pedals. He looks around but the steering wheel is missing.He turns to Putin and asks: \"Vladimir Vladimirovich, where is the steering wheel?\" Putin pulls a remote control out of his pocket and says: \"I'll be the one doing the driving.\"Medvedev's announcement on Saturday that he was stepping down to allow Putin a third presidency came as a surprise to no one, then. Medvedev's only significant act as president was to extend Russia's presidential term from four years to six, hardly a democratic step forwards. This was seen, rightly, as teeing up the conditions for a triumphant comeback during elections in the spring of 2012: Putin's.So what now? Putin's return means the west faces another decade of difficult relations with Russia. During his first two stints as president, the former KGB agent demonstrated his gift at G8 gatherings and other international get-togethers for sardonic repartee mixed with snide remarks about western hypocrisy and double-dealing. We can expect more of this.There is no prospect of any real improvement in UK-Russian relations. David Cameron did manage to meet Putin this month during his trip to Moscow, the first contact with him for four years. But until Downing Street caves in to the Kremlin's demand that it resumes co-operation with Russia's FSB spy agency \u2013 suspended after Alexander Litvinenko's polonium murder \u2013 no \"reset\" is possible.The prospects for Russia itself are equally gloomy. The country now faces a long period of political and economic stagnation and single-party rule. Increasingly the Putin era resembles that of the Soviet Union under Leonid Brezhnev, another too-long authoritarian period sustained by a commodities boom, which left ordinary citizens frustrated. Increasing numbers of talented but Disenfranchised Russians are voting with their feet and moving abroad.In theory Putin could go on until 2024, when he will be 72. Or longer.This week, however, the blogger and anti-corruption campaigner Alexey Navalny predicted that Russia's kleptocractic system would collapse well before that. \"People now realise it doesn't work. It worked between 2000-2005. There was stability up until 2008,\" he said. \"But now it's useless, even for the corrupt people who benefit from it.\"With no political mechanism for removing Putin from power, Navalny said, another Russian revolution was inevitable. At some point, he said, frustrations would boil over. \"Maybe in five months, maybe in two years, maybe in seven years,\" he said. Asked what would spark it, he suggested: \"The Caucasus.\"Many observers have plausibly argued that Putin is tired of being leader. So why did he come back? The Kremlin, of course, is more prestigious that then prime minister's office, and gives Putin an international platform. More than this, though, it allows Putin to protect his own alleged secret assets and those of his team, US diplomats believe. And it allows him to avoid potential law enforcement prosecution \u2013 inevitable, once he steps down from power.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Vladimir Putin's comeback spells gloom for Russia and the west"},{"date": "2011-09-13T16:37:06Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was roast venison, ice cream made from black bread and beetroot, and a bar selling pints of pale ale. Such temptations, plus the promise of cooking tips from a slew of professional chefs, brought almost 12,000 people to Moscow's Festival of Food last month.The size of the crowds \u2013 three times the expected number \u2013 was testament to one thing: Russia is undergoing a gastronomic revolution.\"People are getting really sophisticated when it comes to food,\" said Alexei Zimin, the festival's organiser, in an interview this week. \"When Russians go out these days they don't only talk about cars and money, they talk about what they are eating.\"Fifteen years ago, 1,000th of 1% of the population regularly bought olive oil. Now it's 1%. People are travelling abroad more, they know when a spaghetti carbonara is bad because they've eaten it at seven different restaurants and made it at home.\"The gastro-boom also involves the growth in the number of mid-market restaurants, a trend towards eating locally sourced produce, and the imminent expansion of \"new Russian\" cuisine into the west.Zimin is editor of Afisha Eda, a slick food magazine which has become something of a bible for discerning Muscovites since its launch three years ago. At the festival in Gorky Park, a mile down the Moscow river from the Kremlin, Zimin held a masterclass on how to prepare shrimps with rosemary.Visitors crowded around the stage, while stylish couples and families strolled through a nearby farmers' market selling smoked duck breasts, goat's cheese and organic vegetables. Other visitors joined long queues at field kitchens set up next to a boating lake by well-known city restaurants. Among them were Ragout and Bulka, two of a raft of new Moscow eateries that are neither smoky dives nor \"elitny\" hangouts for oligarch.For now, the proliferation is confined to Moscow and limited to Russia's slowly expanding middle class. Zimin, who trained as a chef in London, expects it to spread as wages rise and foreign travel becomes more accessible. \"There is a big trend of restaurants opening that offer interesting food for sensible money,\" he said. \"It's bistronomy; like the gastropub phenomenon in England.\"Foreign cuisine such as Italian and Japanese is especially popular but native dishes are also getting a makeover.Russian cuisine is historically a bulky north European fare with an accent on boiled meat, soups and pies. Under Soviet rule the spiciest dining options were offered by Caucasian and central Asian restaurants. Yet even some of the hardiest of Russian recipes have been enticed into the realm of haute cuisine at Varvary (Barbarians) in central Moscow.The high-end restaurant, owned by flamboyant chef Anatoly Komm sports blood-red chairs and the walls hung with traditional Vologda lace.Offering the Guardian his own take on borscht \u2013 four melt-in-the-mouth duck livers and a perfectly spherical, hollow ball of smetana (sour cream) dissolved in a ladleful of beetroot soup \u2013 Komm said: \"\"I don't do cafeteria food. After all, Tchaikovsky didn't promote folk dancing, he wrote opera and ballet.\"Eighteen chefs at Varvary labour all day to produce a multi-course \"spectacle\" for 30 guests paying 8,500 roubles (\u00a3180) each. \"In the beginning all my customers were foreigners but now at least 10% are Russians and I'm very pleased about that,\" said Komm.Several top chefs are planning steps abroad. Komm is exploring options in London, while the country's most famous restaurateur, Arkady Novikov, is set to open two restaurants and a lounge bar on Berkeley Street in Mayfair, London, this autumn. Andrei Dellos is also launching a version of his Caf\u00e9 Pushkin in New York.In Moscow, one more sign of Russia's food revolution is the appearance of businesses selling organic food via the internet. Companies suchas LavkaLavka and Ferma deliver lamb, eggs, cream cheese, vegetables and other products from farms near the capital.In the absence of certification for organic foods, LavkaLavka gives detailed descriptions of each farmer and his or her property on its site.\"This is not just about healthy food,\" said co-founder Boris Akimov. \"It's about tomatoes from farmer Ivan Novichikhin or butter from Nina Kozlova. It's about money going to good people for good produce instead of being shovelled into the firebox of transnational companies that make who-knows-what, who-knows-where.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Food & drink", "Food & drink industry", "Food festivals", "Business", "Food", "Life and style", "Festivals", "Europe", "Environment", "Moscow holidays", "Travel", "Culture", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "From Russia with lovage \u2013 Moscow leads gastro revolution"},{"date": "2011-12-02T12:19:14Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While an international noose is tightening around the neck of Bashar-al Assad's regime in Syria, with Turkey this week doing most of the pulling, one country, other than Iran, is intent on bucking the trend \u2013 Russia.A day after the UN human rights council said that Syrian forces were committing crimes against humanity, and Turkey was considering imposing a buffer zone along its border to protect Syrians, Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said further attempts should be made to engage with Damascus.Lavrov opposed the idea of an arms embargo, saying it was unfair to expect the Syrian government not respond to unrest. He thought that for the most part armed opposition groups were provoking the Syrian authorities. These were not empty words.On Monday the state-run English-language channel, Russia Today, reported that Moscow would be sending the aircraft-carrying missile cruiser, Admiral Kuznetsov, and two escort ships on a two-month tour of the Mediterranean and would be dropping in on the Syrian port of Tartus. Six hundred Russian technicians are currently working there to renovate it as a base for Russian ships. Russia Today said the deployment had been long planned, but no one lost sight of the fact that the USS George HW Bush had just appeared off the coast of Syria. On Thursday, a consignment of Russian Yankhont anti-ship cruise missiles arrived in Syria.Why is Russia engaging so heavily with Syria, where it did not with Libya or Iran? After all, the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev banned the sale of R-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Tehran.The first answer is money. Apart from active arms contracts worth $4bn, the Moscow Times reported recently that Russia's investment in Syrian infrastructure, energy and tourism amounts to $19.4bn in 2009. A Russian company, Stroitransgaz, is building a natural gas processing plant 200km east of Homs and is providing the technical support for the Arab gas pipeline. The Tatarstan-based Tatneft began pumping Syrian oil last year and in January vowed to spend $12.8m drilling wells near the Iraqi border.But that is by no means all of the story. The shadow of Libya weighs heavily on Russia's policy with Syria. Throughout the Nato intervention, Lavrov said Russia would not recognise the rebels (although that is what they ended up doing), that there was no UN mandate for a ground forces operation, that the Nato intervention caused more casualties than would otherwise have occurred. Back in August Lavrov said: \"Russia will do everything it can to prevent a Libyan scenario happening in Syria.\"Even though such a scenario has for now been ruled out by Nato, Admiral Viktor Kravchenko, former chief of naval staff, said Moscow was sending a message to the US and Europe. \"Having any military force other than Nato's is very useful for the region because it will prevent the outbreak of armed conflict,\" he said.This is not as daft as it first seems, although Russia's naval deployment is no match for Nato, and indeed will be eagerly awaited by them. Naval watchers will be agog to know whether Russia can keep three large ships on the seas without one of them breaking down.Russia's fears about a civil war developing in Syria are geostrategic and may not be too dissimilar to some of the more cautious western foreign policy analysts, war-gaming the effects it would have on the region. Russian middle eastern experts compare Syria to Russia's own province of Dagestan in the North Caucasus.Unlike its neighbouring Chechnya, Dagestan is patchwork of competing tribes, religions, ethnicities and loyalties, more than 150 of them. If a breakaway Muslim insurgency took hold there, Dagestan would explode like a grenade, sending hot shards of metal and people across southern Russia.Russian fears of a Lebanese-style civil war breaking out in Syria, with the country fissuring on sectarian lines, may not be as far fetched in three months' time as they currently seem. Keeping Syria together while getting rid of a vile dictatorship may conversely be a harder task than western leaders pressing for more sanctions realise. Turkey for one is talking big, but acting on the ground more cautiously.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Business", "Oil", "Libya", "Turkey", "Nato"], "title": "Why Russia is backing Syria | David Hearst"},{"date": "2011-12-02T12:19:14Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While an international noose is tightening around the neck of Bashar-al Assad's regime in Syria, with Turkey this week doing most of the pulling, one country, other than Iran, is intent on bucking the trend \u2013 Russia.A day after the UN human rights council said that Syrian forces were committing crimes against humanity, and Turkey was considering imposing a buffer zone along its border to protect Syrians, Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said further attempts should be made to engage with Damascus.Lavrov opposed the idea of an arms embargo, saying it was unfair to expect the Syrian government not respond to unrest. He thought that for the most part armed opposition groups were provoking the Syrian authorities. These were not empty words.On Monday the state-run English-language channel, Russia Today, reported that Moscow would be sending the aircraft-carrying missile cruiser, Admiral Kuznetsov, and two escort ships on a two-month tour of the Mediterranean and would be dropping in on the Syrian port of Tartus. Six hundred Russian technicians are currently working there to renovate it as a base for Russian ships. Russia Today said the deployment had been long planned, but no one lost sight of the fact that the USS George HW Bush had just appeared off the coast of Syria. On Thursday, a consignment of Russian Yankhont anti-ship cruise missiles arrived in Syria.Why is Russia engaging so heavily with Syria, where it did not with Libya or Iran? After all, the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev banned the sale of R-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Tehran.The first answer is money. Apart from active arms contracts worth $4bn, the Moscow Times reported recently that Russia's investment in Syrian infrastructure, energy and tourism amounts to $19.4bn in 2009. A Russian company, Stroitransgaz, is building a natural gas processing plant 200km east of Homs and is providing the technical support for the Arab gas pipeline. The Tatarstan-based Tatneft began pumping Syrian oil last year and in January vowed to spend $12.8m drilling wells near the Iraqi border.But that is by no means all of the story. The shadow of Libya weighs heavily on Russia's policy with Syria. Throughout the Nato intervention, Lavrov said Russia would not recognise the rebels (although that is what they ended up doing), that there was no UN mandate for a ground forces operation, that the Nato intervention caused more casualties than would otherwise have occurred. Back in August Lavrov said: \"Russia will do everything it can to prevent a Libyan scenario happening in Syria.\"Even though such a scenario has for now been ruled out by Nato, Admiral Viktor Kravchenko, former chief of naval staff, said Moscow was sending a message to the US and Europe. \"Having any military force other than Nato's is very useful for the region because it will prevent the outbreak of armed conflict,\" he said.This is not as daft as it first seems, although Russia's naval deployment is no match for Nato, and indeed will be eagerly awaited by them. Naval watchers will be agog to know whether Russia can keep three large ships on the seas without one of them breaking down.Russia's fears about a civil war developing in Syria are geostrategic and may not be too dissimilar to some of the more cautious western foreign policy analysts, war-gaming the effects it would have on the region. Russian middle eastern experts compare Syria to Russia's own province of Dagestan in the North Caucasus.Unlike its neighbouring Chechnya, Dagestan is patchwork of competing tribes, religions, ethnicities and loyalties, more than 150 of them. If a breakaway Muslim insurgency took hold there, Dagestan would explode like a grenade, sending hot shards of metal and people across southern Russia.Russian fears of a Lebanese-style civil war breaking out in Syria, with the country fissuring on sectarian lines, may not be as far fetched in three months' time as they currently seem. Keeping Syria together while getting rid of a vile dictatorship may conversely be a harder task than western leaders pressing for more sanctions realise. Turkey for one is talking big, but acting on the ground more cautiously.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Business", "Oil", "Libya", "Turkey", "Nato"], "title": "Why Russia is backing Syria | David Hearst"},{"date": "2011-12-16T12:16:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia supports Canada's decision to pull out of the Kyoto protocol, says its foreign ministry, reaffirming Friday that Moscow will not take on new commitments.Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told Friday's briefing that the treaty does not cover all major polluters, and thus cannot help solve the climate crisis.Canada on Monday pulled out of the agreement initially adopted in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, to cut carbon emissions contributing to global warming. Its move dealt a blow to the treaty, which has not been formally renounced by any other country.\"This is yet another example that the 1997 Kyoto protocol has lost its effectiveness in the context of the social and economic situation of the 21st century,\" Lukashevich said, adding that the document does not ensure the participation of all key emitters.The protocol requires some industrialised countries to slash emissions, but doesn't cover the world's largest polluters, China and the United States. Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they will not accept new Kyoto commitments.Russia is the only country to speak out in support of Canada's move so far, with even Japan calling the withdrawl \"disappointing\" and China condeming it as \"preposterous\". Canada's environment minister Peter Kent defended the decision on Monday, saying it would save the country $14bn in emissions trading permits it could have had to buy for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.At the Durban climate talks last week, the EU committed to a new commitment period of the protocol.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Climate change", "Russia", "Canada", "World news", "Green politics"], "title": "Russia supports Canada's withdrawal from Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-02T12:19:14Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While an international noose is tightening around the neck of Bashar-al Assad's regime in Syria, with Turkey this week doing most of the pulling, one country, other than Iran, is intent on bucking the trend \u2013 Russia.A day after the UN human rights council said that Syrian forces were committing crimes against humanity, and Turkey was considering imposing a buffer zone along its border to protect Syrians, Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said further attempts should be made to engage with Damascus.Lavrov opposed the idea of an arms embargo, saying it was unfair to expect the Syrian government not respond to unrest. He thought that for the most part armed opposition groups were provoking the Syrian authorities. These were not empty words.On Monday the state-run English-language channel, Russia Today, reported that Moscow would be sending the aircraft-carrying missile cruiser, Admiral Kuznetsov, and two escort ships on a two-month tour of the Mediterranean and would be dropping in on the Syrian port of Tartus. Six hundred Russian technicians are currently working there to renovate it as a base for Russian ships. Russia Today said the deployment had been long planned, but no one lost sight of the fact that the USS George HW Bush had just appeared off the coast of Syria. On Thursday, a consignment of Russian Yankhont anti-ship cruise missiles arrived in Syria.Why is Russia engaging so heavily with Syria, where it did not with Libya or Iran? After all, the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev banned the sale of R-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Tehran.The first answer is money. Apart from active arms contracts worth $4bn, the Moscow Times reported recently that Russia's investment in Syrian infrastructure, energy and tourism amounts to $19.4bn in 2009. A Russian company, Stroitransgaz, is building a natural gas processing plant 200km east of Homs and is providing the technical support for the Arab gas pipeline. The Tatarstan-based Tatneft began pumping Syrian oil last year and in January vowed to spend $12.8m drilling wells near the Iraqi border.But that is by no means all of the story. The shadow of Libya weighs heavily on Russia's policy with Syria. Throughout the Nato intervention, Lavrov said Russia would not recognise the rebels (although that is what they ended up doing), that there was no UN mandate for a ground forces operation, that the Nato intervention caused more casualties than would otherwise have occurred. Back in August Lavrov said: \"Russia will do everything it can to prevent a Libyan scenario happening in Syria.\"Even though such a scenario has for now been ruled out by Nato, Admiral Viktor Kravchenko, former chief of naval staff, said Moscow was sending a message to the US and Europe. \"Having any military force other than Nato's is very useful for the region because it will prevent the outbreak of armed conflict,\" he said.This is not as daft as it first seems, although Russia's naval deployment is no match for Nato, and indeed will be eagerly awaited by them. Naval watchers will be agog to know whether Russia can keep three large ships on the seas without one of them breaking down.Russia's fears about a civil war developing in Syria are geostrategic and may not be too dissimilar to some of the more cautious western foreign policy analysts, war-gaming the effects it would have on the region. Russian middle eastern experts compare Syria to Russia's own province of Dagestan in the North Caucasus.Unlike its neighbouring Chechnya, Dagestan is patchwork of competing tribes, religions, ethnicities and loyalties, more than 150 of them. If a breakaway Muslim insurgency took hold there, Dagestan would explode like a grenade, sending hot shards of metal and people across southern Russia.Russian fears of a Lebanese-style civil war breaking out in Syria, with the country fissuring on sectarian lines, may not be as far fetched in three months' time as they currently seem. Keeping Syria together while getting rid of a vile dictatorship may conversely be a harder task than western leaders pressing for more sanctions realise. Turkey for one is talking big, but acting on the ground more cautiously.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Business", "Oil", "Libya", "Turkey", "Nato"], "title": "Why Russia is backing Syria | David Hearst"},{"date": "2011-12-16T12:16:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia supports Canada's decision to pull out of the Kyoto protocol, says its foreign ministry, reaffirming Friday that Moscow will not take on new commitments.Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told Friday's briefing that the treaty does not cover all major polluters, and thus cannot help solve the climate crisis.Canada on Monday pulled out of the agreement initially adopted in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, to cut carbon emissions contributing to global warming. Its move dealt a blow to the treaty, which has not been formally renounced by any other country.\"This is yet another example that the 1997 Kyoto protocol has lost its effectiveness in the context of the social and economic situation of the 21st century,\" Lukashevich said, adding that the document does not ensure the participation of all key emitters.The protocol requires some industrialised countries to slash emissions, but doesn't cover the world's largest polluters, China and the United States. Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they will not accept new Kyoto commitments.Russia is the only country to speak out in support of Canada's move so far, with even Japan calling the withdrawl \"disappointing\" and China condeming it as \"preposterous\". Canada's environment minister Peter Kent defended the decision on Monday, saying it would save the country $14bn in emissions trading permits it could have had to buy for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.At the Durban climate talks last week, the EU committed to a new commitment period of the protocol.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Climate change", "Russia", "Canada", "World news", "Green politics"], "title": "Russia supports Canada's withdrawal from Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:07:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Tens of thousands of Russians are expected to take to the streets on Saturday despite Kremlin efforts to ease tensions over disputed elections and Vladimir Putin's expected return to the presidency.More than 50,000 people have indicated their intention to attend a protest on Moscow's Sakharov Prospect, named after the late leading Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov. Thousands more have signed up via social networking sites for protests in more than 80 Russian cities.The protesters are hoping to capitalise on the momentum launched earlier this month, when up to 50,000 people turned out in Moscow alone demanding the Kremlin overturn parliamentary election results that saw Putin's United Russia take a majority in the Duma despite widespread accusations of fraud.The former Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev, the novelist Boris Akunin, the anti-corruption activist Alexey Navalny and Ksenia Sobchak, the Russian \"It Girl\" and daughter of Putin's mentor, are among those expected to address the crowd. Protesters will don white ribbons to symbolise their opposition to the election results, which they say are a sign of their country's lack of democracy. The oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov, who is running against Putin, also said he would address the rally.The Russian leadership has played a double game of mocking the protesters while proposing to liberalise the country's political system as it struggles to confront the largest ever challenge to its rule. Putin has twice compared the protesters' ribbons to condoms and repeatedly accused them of being in the pay of the US state department, while Dmitry Medvedev, the more liberal president, has issued a series of proposals to loosen the election laws.Protest organisers, holding their final organising committee meeting on Friday, said that Medvedev's proposals, issued during his final state of the nation address on Thursday, were not enough.\"It is not an answer \u2013 it's not what Bolotnaya expects and not what Sakharov Prospect expects,\" said the opposition leader Vladimir Ryzhkov, referring to the two protest sites. \"Medvedev didn't answer a host of our demands.\"Protesters are calling for election results to be overturned, the elections committee chief Vladimir Churov to be fired and political prisoners to be released. They have also begun to turn their attention to a 4 March presidential election, calling on disaffected Russians to vote against Putin as he seeks to return to the Kremlin after four years as prime minister.In a sign of increasing nervousness, Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's secretive chief ideologist, gave a rare interview published on Friday, in which he argued that \"the system has already changed\".\"People are saying: 'We exist, we have meaning, we are the people,'\" Surkov told Izvestiya newspaper. \"One cannot arrogantly dismiss their opinions.\" Surkov is the architect of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and \"power vertical\", two terms used to describe the country's soft authoritarian form of governance.In the same interview, Surkov followed Putin and Medvedev in claiming the protests were organised by outside forces. \"Of course there are those who wish to turn the protests into a colour revolution, that's for sure,\" he said, referring to pro-democracy revolutions that shook Georgia and Ukraine. He appeared to link Russia's protests to the Arab Spring by accusing demonstrators of following the instructions of the US political scientist Gene Sharp, whose book on revolution has been influential in recent popular uprisings. \"It's so by the book that it's boring,\" Surkov said. \"I want to suggest to these gentlemen that they cut themselves off from these instructions.\"Medvedev on Friday submitted to parliament a packet of draft bills easing rules for registering political parties and presidential candidates. At the same time, he promoted two officials notorious for their hardline background. On Thursday, the deputy prime minister, Sergei Ivanov, a former defence minister and close Putin ally, became the Kremlin chief of staff, a move likely designed to set the stage for Putin's return to the presidency. Medvedev appointed Dmitry Rogozin, an outspoken nationalist who is currently Russia's envoy to Nato, to replace him as deputy prime minister in charge of the military.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Kremlin nervous as protesters return to streets of Russia"},{"date": "2011-12-02T12:19:14Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While an international noose is tightening around the neck of Bashar-al Assad's regime in Syria, with Turkey this week doing most of the pulling, one country, other than Iran, is intent on bucking the trend \u2013 Russia.A day after the UN human rights council said that Syrian forces were committing crimes against humanity, and Turkey was considering imposing a buffer zone along its border to protect Syrians, Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said further attempts should be made to engage with Damascus.Lavrov opposed the idea of an arms embargo, saying it was unfair to expect the Syrian government not respond to unrest. He thought that for the most part armed opposition groups were provoking the Syrian authorities. These were not empty words.On Monday the state-run English-language channel, Russia Today, reported that Moscow would be sending the aircraft-carrying missile cruiser, Admiral Kuznetsov, and two escort ships on a two-month tour of the Mediterranean and would be dropping in on the Syrian port of Tartus. Six hundred Russian technicians are currently working there to renovate it as a base for Russian ships. Russia Today said the deployment had been long planned, but no one lost sight of the fact that the USS George HW Bush had just appeared off the coast of Syria. On Thursday, a consignment of Russian Yankhont anti-ship cruise missiles arrived in Syria.Why is Russia engaging so heavily with Syria, where it did not with Libya or Iran? After all, the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev banned the sale of R-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Tehran.The first answer is money. Apart from active arms contracts worth $4bn, the Moscow Times reported recently that Russia's investment in Syrian infrastructure, energy and tourism amounts to $19.4bn in 2009. A Russian company, Stroitransgaz, is building a natural gas processing plant 200km east of Homs and is providing the technical support for the Arab gas pipeline. The Tatarstan-based Tatneft began pumping Syrian oil last year and in January vowed to spend $12.8m drilling wells near the Iraqi border.But that is by no means all of the story. The shadow of Libya weighs heavily on Russia's policy with Syria. Throughout the Nato intervention, Lavrov said Russia would not recognise the rebels (although that is what they ended up doing), that there was no UN mandate for a ground forces operation, that the Nato intervention caused more casualties than would otherwise have occurred. Back in August Lavrov said: \"Russia will do everything it can to prevent a Libyan scenario happening in Syria.\"Even though such a scenario has for now been ruled out by Nato, Admiral Viktor Kravchenko, former chief of naval staff, said Moscow was sending a message to the US and Europe. \"Having any military force other than Nato's is very useful for the region because it will prevent the outbreak of armed conflict,\" he said.This is not as daft as it first seems, although Russia's naval deployment is no match for Nato, and indeed will be eagerly awaited by them. Naval watchers will be agog to know whether Russia can keep three large ships on the seas without one of them breaking down.Russia's fears about a civil war developing in Syria are geostrategic and may not be too dissimilar to some of the more cautious western foreign policy analysts, war-gaming the effects it would have on the region. Russian middle eastern experts compare Syria to Russia's own province of Dagestan in the North Caucasus.Unlike its neighbouring Chechnya, Dagestan is patchwork of competing tribes, religions, ethnicities and loyalties, more than 150 of them. If a breakaway Muslim insurgency took hold there, Dagestan would explode like a grenade, sending hot shards of metal and people across southern Russia.Russian fears of a Lebanese-style civil war breaking out in Syria, with the country fissuring on sectarian lines, may not be as far fetched in three months' time as they currently seem. Keeping Syria together while getting rid of a vile dictatorship may conversely be a harder task than western leaders pressing for more sanctions realise. Turkey for one is talking big, but acting on the ground more cautiously.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Business", "Oil", "Libya", "Turkey", "Nato"], "title": "Why Russia is backing Syria | David Hearst"},{"date": "2011-12-16T12:16:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia supports Canada's decision to pull out of the Kyoto protocol, says its foreign ministry, reaffirming Friday that Moscow will not take on new commitments.Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told Friday's briefing that the treaty does not cover all major polluters, and thus cannot help solve the climate crisis.Canada on Monday pulled out of the agreement initially adopted in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, to cut carbon emissions contributing to global warming. Its move dealt a blow to the treaty, which has not been formally renounced by any other country.\"This is yet another example that the 1997 Kyoto protocol has lost its effectiveness in the context of the social and economic situation of the 21st century,\" Lukashevich said, adding that the document does not ensure the participation of all key emitters.The protocol requires some industrialised countries to slash emissions, but doesn't cover the world's largest polluters, China and the United States. Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they will not accept new Kyoto commitments.Russia is the only country to speak out in support of Canada's move so far, with even Japan calling the withdrawl \"disappointing\" and China condeming it as \"preposterous\". Canada's environment minister Peter Kent defended the decision on Monday, saying it would save the country $14bn in emissions trading permits it could have had to buy for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.At the Durban climate talks last week, the EU committed to a new commitment period of the protocol.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Climate change", "Russia", "Canada", "World news", "Green politics"], "title": "Russia supports Canada's withdrawal from Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:07:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Tens of thousands of Russians are expected to take to the streets on Saturday despite Kremlin efforts to ease tensions over disputed elections and Vladimir Putin's expected return to the presidency.More than 50,000 people have indicated their intention to attend a protest on Moscow's Sakharov Prospect, named after the late leading Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov. Thousands more have signed up via social networking sites for protests in more than 80 Russian cities.The protesters are hoping to capitalise on the momentum launched earlier this month, when up to 50,000 people turned out in Moscow alone demanding the Kremlin overturn parliamentary election results that saw Putin's United Russia take a majority in the Duma despite widespread accusations of fraud.The former Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev, the novelist Boris Akunin, the anti-corruption activist Alexey Navalny and Ksenia Sobchak, the Russian \"It Girl\" and daughter of Putin's mentor, are among those expected to address the crowd. Protesters will don white ribbons to symbolise their opposition to the election results, which they say are a sign of their country's lack of democracy. The oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov, who is running against Putin, also said he would address the rally.The Russian leadership has played a double game of mocking the protesters while proposing to liberalise the country's political system as it struggles to confront the largest ever challenge to its rule. Putin has twice compared the protesters' ribbons to condoms and repeatedly accused them of being in the pay of the US state department, while Dmitry Medvedev, the more liberal president, has issued a series of proposals to loosen the election laws.Protest organisers, holding their final organising committee meeting on Friday, said that Medvedev's proposals, issued during his final state of the nation address on Thursday, were not enough.\"It is not an answer \u2013 it's not what Bolotnaya expects and not what Sakharov Prospect expects,\" said the opposition leader Vladimir Ryzhkov, referring to the two protest sites. \"Medvedev didn't answer a host of our demands.\"Protesters are calling for election results to be overturned, the elections committee chief Vladimir Churov to be fired and political prisoners to be released. They have also begun to turn their attention to a 4 March presidential election, calling on disaffected Russians to vote against Putin as he seeks to return to the Kremlin after four years as prime minister.In a sign of increasing nervousness, Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's secretive chief ideologist, gave a rare interview published on Friday, in which he argued that \"the system has already changed\".\"People are saying: 'We exist, we have meaning, we are the people,'\" Surkov told Izvestiya newspaper. \"One cannot arrogantly dismiss their opinions.\" Surkov is the architect of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and \"power vertical\", two terms used to describe the country's soft authoritarian form of governance.In the same interview, Surkov followed Putin and Medvedev in claiming the protests were organised by outside forces. \"Of course there are those who wish to turn the protests into a colour revolution, that's for sure,\" he said, referring to pro-democracy revolutions that shook Georgia and Ukraine. He appeared to link Russia's protests to the Arab Spring by accusing demonstrators of following the instructions of the US political scientist Gene Sharp, whose book on revolution has been influential in recent popular uprisings. \"It's so by the book that it's boring,\" Surkov said. \"I want to suggest to these gentlemen that they cut themselves off from these instructions.\"Medvedev on Friday submitted to parliament a packet of draft bills easing rules for registering political parties and presidential candidates. At the same time, he promoted two officials notorious for their hardline background. On Thursday, the deputy prime minister, Sergei Ivanov, a former defence minister and close Putin ally, became the Kremlin chief of staff, a move likely designed to set the stage for Putin's return to the presidency. Medvedev appointed Dmitry Rogozin, an outspoken nationalist who is currently Russia's envoy to Nato, to replace him as deputy prime minister in charge of the military.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Kremlin nervous as protesters return to streets of Russia"},{"date": "2011-12-18T00:12:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Khadzhimurad Kamalov was a battling editor doing his job \u2013 the essential job for any good journalist working in Dagestan. He reported the truth about official corruption, about organised crime, about the lawlessness that grips Russia's North Caucasus, and he surely knew the risks he was taking. The masked gunman who ambushed him outside his office last week and shot him a sickening 14 times or more was always a half-expected caller \u2013 just like the gunman who killed another Dagestan journalist, Yakhya Magomedov, in May. Though he was only shot four times.The more facts along this trail of blood, the more dismaying it becomes. Four journalists murdered in Vladimir Putin's Russia this year alone. That makes it a \"good year\" by some standards, because around 40 have been killed since he first came to hold power. We in the west may have registered a few dreadful cases \u2013 say, the murder of Anna Politkovskaya \u2013 but, year in and year out, something close to a silent slaughter has been allowed, even condoned. Crimes unchecked, often cursorily investigated. Crimes against freedom bathed in slothful impunity. Many, many die, but few merit even a semblance of justice.Of course, precise figuring in case after case isn't possible. A more general conclusion, though, is inescapable. Russia is one of the world's most perilous places to practise journalism or any kind of truth-telling. Far outside Moscow, in the scattered republics, anything goes \u2013 and goes unavenged. Inside Moscow, rulers who pay lip service to human rights parade only an indifference that makes them complicit in these crimes. Mr Kamalov died on the very day that Russia's journalist organisations had banded together to commemorate those of their colleagues who'd been slain. Bitter irony. How many more, Mr Putin? How long are we supposed to mourn fellow journalists who died trying to tell us, and their fellow Russians, what a slack, slimy, savage state you run?\u2022 This article was amended on 3 July 2012 to change the total of journalists killed since Vladimir Putin first came to hold power from 200 to \"around 40\". This correction was made in the newspaper on the day of publication but was not made in the online version at the time. Apologies.", "tags": ["Russia"], "title": "Truth is being murdered in Putin's bloody Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-02T12:19:14Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While an international noose is tightening around the neck of Bashar-al Assad's regime in Syria, with Turkey this week doing most of the pulling, one country, other than Iran, is intent on bucking the trend \u2013 Russia.A day after the UN human rights council said that Syrian forces were committing crimes against humanity, and Turkey was considering imposing a buffer zone along its border to protect Syrians, Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said further attempts should be made to engage with Damascus.Lavrov opposed the idea of an arms embargo, saying it was unfair to expect the Syrian government not respond to unrest. He thought that for the most part armed opposition groups were provoking the Syrian authorities. These were not empty words.On Monday the state-run English-language channel, Russia Today, reported that Moscow would be sending the aircraft-carrying missile cruiser, Admiral Kuznetsov, and two escort ships on a two-month tour of the Mediterranean and would be dropping in on the Syrian port of Tartus. Six hundred Russian technicians are currently working there to renovate it as a base for Russian ships. Russia Today said the deployment had been long planned, but no one lost sight of the fact that the USS George HW Bush had just appeared off the coast of Syria. On Thursday, a consignment of Russian Yankhont anti-ship cruise missiles arrived in Syria.Why is Russia engaging so heavily with Syria, where it did not with Libya or Iran? After all, the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev banned the sale of R-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Tehran.The first answer is money. Apart from active arms contracts worth $4bn, the Moscow Times reported recently that Russia's investment in Syrian infrastructure, energy and tourism amounts to $19.4bn in 2009. A Russian company, Stroitransgaz, is building a natural gas processing plant 200km east of Homs and is providing the technical support for the Arab gas pipeline. The Tatarstan-based Tatneft began pumping Syrian oil last year and in January vowed to spend $12.8m drilling wells near the Iraqi border.But that is by no means all of the story. The shadow of Libya weighs heavily on Russia's policy with Syria. Throughout the Nato intervention, Lavrov said Russia would not recognise the rebels (although that is what they ended up doing), that there was no UN mandate for a ground forces operation, that the Nato intervention caused more casualties than would otherwise have occurred. Back in August Lavrov said: \"Russia will do everything it can to prevent a Libyan scenario happening in Syria.\"Even though such a scenario has for now been ruled out by Nato, Admiral Viktor Kravchenko, former chief of naval staff, said Moscow was sending a message to the US and Europe. \"Having any military force other than Nato's is very useful for the region because it will prevent the outbreak of armed conflict,\" he said.This is not as daft as it first seems, although Russia's naval deployment is no match for Nato, and indeed will be eagerly awaited by them. Naval watchers will be agog to know whether Russia can keep three large ships on the seas without one of them breaking down.Russia's fears about a civil war developing in Syria are geostrategic and may not be too dissimilar to some of the more cautious western foreign policy analysts, war-gaming the effects it would have on the region. Russian middle eastern experts compare Syria to Russia's own province of Dagestan in the North Caucasus.Unlike its neighbouring Chechnya, Dagestan is patchwork of competing tribes, religions, ethnicities and loyalties, more than 150 of them. If a breakaway Muslim insurgency took hold there, Dagestan would explode like a grenade, sending hot shards of metal and people across southern Russia.Russian fears of a Lebanese-style civil war breaking out in Syria, with the country fissuring on sectarian lines, may not be as far fetched in three months' time as they currently seem. Keeping Syria together while getting rid of a vile dictatorship may conversely be a harder task than western leaders pressing for more sanctions realise. Turkey for one is talking big, but acting on the ground more cautiously.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Business", "Oil", "Libya", "Turkey", "Nato"], "title": "Why Russia is backing Syria | David Hearst"},{"date": "2011-12-16T12:16:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia supports Canada's decision to pull out of the Kyoto protocol, says its foreign ministry, reaffirming Friday that Moscow will not take on new commitments.Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told Friday's briefing that the treaty does not cover all major polluters, and thus cannot help solve the climate crisis.Canada on Monday pulled out of the agreement initially adopted in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, to cut carbon emissions contributing to global warming. Its move dealt a blow to the treaty, which has not been formally renounced by any other country.\"This is yet another example that the 1997 Kyoto protocol has lost its effectiveness in the context of the social and economic situation of the 21st century,\" Lukashevich said, adding that the document does not ensure the participation of all key emitters.The protocol requires some industrialised countries to slash emissions, but doesn't cover the world's largest polluters, China and the United States. Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they will not accept new Kyoto commitments.Russia is the only country to speak out in support of Canada's move so far, with even Japan calling the withdrawl \"disappointing\" and China condeming it as \"preposterous\". Canada's environment minister Peter Kent defended the decision on Monday, saying it would save the country $14bn in emissions trading permits it could have had to buy for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.At the Durban climate talks last week, the EU committed to a new commitment period of the protocol.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Climate change", "Russia", "Canada", "World news", "Green politics"], "title": "Russia supports Canada's withdrawal from Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:07:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Tens of thousands of Russians are expected to take to the streets on Saturday despite Kremlin efforts to ease tensions over disputed elections and Vladimir Putin's expected return to the presidency.More than 50,000 people have indicated their intention to attend a protest on Moscow's Sakharov Prospect, named after the late leading Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov. Thousands more have signed up via social networking sites for protests in more than 80 Russian cities.The protesters are hoping to capitalise on the momentum launched earlier this month, when up to 50,000 people turned out in Moscow alone demanding the Kremlin overturn parliamentary election results that saw Putin's United Russia take a majority in the Duma despite widespread accusations of fraud.The former Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev, the novelist Boris Akunin, the anti-corruption activist Alexey Navalny and Ksenia Sobchak, the Russian \"It Girl\" and daughter of Putin's mentor, are among those expected to address the crowd. Protesters will don white ribbons to symbolise their opposition to the election results, which they say are a sign of their country's lack of democracy. The oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov, who is running against Putin, also said he would address the rally.The Russian leadership has played a double game of mocking the protesters while proposing to liberalise the country's political system as it struggles to confront the largest ever challenge to its rule. Putin has twice compared the protesters' ribbons to condoms and repeatedly accused them of being in the pay of the US state department, while Dmitry Medvedev, the more liberal president, has issued a series of proposals to loosen the election laws.Protest organisers, holding their final organising committee meeting on Friday, said that Medvedev's proposals, issued during his final state of the nation address on Thursday, were not enough.\"It is not an answer \u2013 it's not what Bolotnaya expects and not what Sakharov Prospect expects,\" said the opposition leader Vladimir Ryzhkov, referring to the two protest sites. \"Medvedev didn't answer a host of our demands.\"Protesters are calling for election results to be overturned, the elections committee chief Vladimir Churov to be fired and political prisoners to be released. They have also begun to turn their attention to a 4 March presidential election, calling on disaffected Russians to vote against Putin as he seeks to return to the Kremlin after four years as prime minister.In a sign of increasing nervousness, Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's secretive chief ideologist, gave a rare interview published on Friday, in which he argued that \"the system has already changed\".\"People are saying: 'We exist, we have meaning, we are the people,'\" Surkov told Izvestiya newspaper. \"One cannot arrogantly dismiss their opinions.\" Surkov is the architect of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and \"power vertical\", two terms used to describe the country's soft authoritarian form of governance.In the same interview, Surkov followed Putin and Medvedev in claiming the protests were organised by outside forces. \"Of course there are those who wish to turn the protests into a colour revolution, that's for sure,\" he said, referring to pro-democracy revolutions that shook Georgia and Ukraine. He appeared to link Russia's protests to the Arab Spring by accusing demonstrators of following the instructions of the US political scientist Gene Sharp, whose book on revolution has been influential in recent popular uprisings. \"It's so by the book that it's boring,\" Surkov said. \"I want to suggest to these gentlemen that they cut themselves off from these instructions.\"Medvedev on Friday submitted to parliament a packet of draft bills easing rules for registering political parties and presidential candidates. At the same time, he promoted two officials notorious for their hardline background. On Thursday, the deputy prime minister, Sergei Ivanov, a former defence minister and close Putin ally, became the Kremlin chief of staff, a move likely designed to set the stage for Putin's return to the presidency. Medvedev appointed Dmitry Rogozin, an outspoken nationalist who is currently Russia's envoy to Nato, to replace him as deputy prime minister in charge of the military.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Kremlin nervous as protesters return to streets of Russia"},{"date": "2011-12-18T00:12:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Khadzhimurad Kamalov was a battling editor doing his job \u2013 the essential job for any good journalist working in Dagestan. He reported the truth about official corruption, about organised crime, about the lawlessness that grips Russia's North Caucasus, and he surely knew the risks he was taking. The masked gunman who ambushed him outside his office last week and shot him a sickening 14 times or more was always a half-expected caller \u2013 just like the gunman who killed another Dagestan journalist, Yakhya Magomedov, in May. Though he was only shot four times.The more facts along this trail of blood, the more dismaying it becomes. Four journalists murdered in Vladimir Putin's Russia this year alone. That makes it a \"good year\" by some standards, because around 40 have been killed since he first came to hold power. We in the west may have registered a few dreadful cases \u2013 say, the murder of Anna Politkovskaya \u2013 but, year in and year out, something close to a silent slaughter has been allowed, even condoned. Crimes unchecked, often cursorily investigated. Crimes against freedom bathed in slothful impunity. Many, many die, but few merit even a semblance of justice.Of course, precise figuring in case after case isn't possible. A more general conclusion, though, is inescapable. Russia is one of the world's most perilous places to practise journalism or any kind of truth-telling. Far outside Moscow, in the scattered republics, anything goes \u2013 and goes unavenged. Inside Moscow, rulers who pay lip service to human rights parade only an indifference that makes them complicit in these crimes. Mr Kamalov died on the very day that Russia's journalist organisations had banded together to commemorate those of their colleagues who'd been slain. Bitter irony. How many more, Mr Putin? How long are we supposed to mourn fellow journalists who died trying to tell us, and their fellow Russians, what a slack, slimy, savage state you run?\u2022 This article was amended on 3 July 2012 to change the total of journalists killed since Vladimir Putin first came to hold power from 200 to \"around 40\". This correction was made in the newspaper on the day of publication but was not made in the online version at the time. Apologies.", "tags": ["Russia"], "title": "Truth is being murdered in Putin's bloody Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-18T00:06:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The future of Russian politics is unpredictable. Indeed, we may be seeing the dawn of a new era there. Or so conclude two perfectly competent Independent reports on Putin's winter of discontent. But it's not only Russia's would-be repeat president who has uncertainty to grapple with: this could also be a bit of a new era test for Alexander Lebedev and his son Evgeny, owner and chairman respectively of the Indy and Evening Standard empire.Is Lebedev senior an admirer, a critic or a thumbsucker when it comes to Putin? Will Indy leader-writers be able to call openly for the old KGB fixer to go if he turns police truncheons and gas canisters on the young marchers who demand his departure? Does Lebedev want another eight years of Putin in charge, or not? And will the Independents reflect his wishes (or even find out what they are)?No verbal grenades flying yet. The Lebedev ownership in Kensington has been hands off, and full of pristine sentiments. There's no manifest reason to fear what may come next \u2013 but every reason to watch very closely indeed.", "tags": ["Alexander Lebedev", "Evgeny Lebedev", "The Independent", "Independent on Sunday", "London Evening Standard", "Independent News & Media", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "As Russia shakes, which way will the Lebedevs fall?"},{"date": "2011-12-02T12:19:14Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While an international noose is tightening around the neck of Bashar-al Assad's regime in Syria, with Turkey this week doing most of the pulling, one country, other than Iran, is intent on bucking the trend \u2013 Russia.A day after the UN human rights council said that Syrian forces were committing crimes against humanity, and Turkey was considering imposing a buffer zone along its border to protect Syrians, Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said further attempts should be made to engage with Damascus.Lavrov opposed the idea of an arms embargo, saying it was unfair to expect the Syrian government not respond to unrest. He thought that for the most part armed opposition groups were provoking the Syrian authorities. These were not empty words.On Monday the state-run English-language channel, Russia Today, reported that Moscow would be sending the aircraft-carrying missile cruiser, Admiral Kuznetsov, and two escort ships on a two-month tour of the Mediterranean and would be dropping in on the Syrian port of Tartus. Six hundred Russian technicians are currently working there to renovate it as a base for Russian ships. Russia Today said the deployment had been long planned, but no one lost sight of the fact that the USS George HW Bush had just appeared off the coast of Syria. On Thursday, a consignment of Russian Yankhont anti-ship cruise missiles arrived in Syria.Why is Russia engaging so heavily with Syria, where it did not with Libya or Iran? After all, the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev banned the sale of R-300 anti-aircraft missiles to Tehran.The first answer is money. Apart from active arms contracts worth $4bn, the Moscow Times reported recently that Russia's investment in Syrian infrastructure, energy and tourism amounts to $19.4bn in 2009. A Russian company, Stroitransgaz, is building a natural gas processing plant 200km east of Homs and is providing the technical support for the Arab gas pipeline. The Tatarstan-based Tatneft began pumping Syrian oil last year and in January vowed to spend $12.8m drilling wells near the Iraqi border.But that is by no means all of the story. The shadow of Libya weighs heavily on Russia's policy with Syria. Throughout the Nato intervention, Lavrov said Russia would not recognise the rebels (although that is what they ended up doing), that there was no UN mandate for a ground forces operation, that the Nato intervention caused more casualties than would otherwise have occurred. Back in August Lavrov said: \"Russia will do everything it can to prevent a Libyan scenario happening in Syria.\"Even though such a scenario has for now been ruled out by Nato, Admiral Viktor Kravchenko, former chief of naval staff, said Moscow was sending a message to the US and Europe. \"Having any military force other than Nato's is very useful for the region because it will prevent the outbreak of armed conflict,\" he said.This is not as daft as it first seems, although Russia's naval deployment is no match for Nato, and indeed will be eagerly awaited by them. Naval watchers will be agog to know whether Russia can keep three large ships on the seas without one of them breaking down.Russia's fears about a civil war developing in Syria are geostrategic and may not be too dissimilar to some of the more cautious western foreign policy analysts, war-gaming the effects it would have on the region. Russian middle eastern experts compare Syria to Russia's own province of Dagestan in the North Caucasus.Unlike its neighbouring Chechnya, Dagestan is patchwork of competing tribes, religions, ethnicities and loyalties, more than 150 of them. If a breakaway Muslim insurgency took hold there, Dagestan would explode like a grenade, sending hot shards of metal and people across southern Russia.Russian fears of a Lebanese-style civil war breaking out in Syria, with the country fissuring on sectarian lines, may not be as far fetched in three months' time as they currently seem. Keeping Syria together while getting rid of a vile dictatorship may conversely be a harder task than western leaders pressing for more sanctions realise. Turkey for one is talking big, but acting on the ground more cautiously.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Business", "Oil", "Libya", "Turkey", "Nato"], "title": "Why Russia is backing Syria | David Hearst"},{"date": "2011-12-16T12:16:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia supports Canada's decision to pull out of the Kyoto protocol, says its foreign ministry, reaffirming Friday that Moscow will not take on new commitments.Ministry spokesman Alexander Lukashevich told Friday's briefing that the treaty does not cover all major polluters, and thus cannot help solve the climate crisis.Canada on Monday pulled out of the agreement initially adopted in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, to cut carbon emissions contributing to global warming. Its move dealt a blow to the treaty, which has not been formally renounced by any other country.\"This is yet another example that the 1997 Kyoto protocol has lost its effectiveness in the context of the social and economic situation of the 21st century,\" Lukashevich said, adding that the document does not ensure the participation of all key emitters.The protocol requires some industrialised countries to slash emissions, but doesn't cover the world's largest polluters, China and the United States. Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they will not accept new Kyoto commitments.Russia is the only country to speak out in support of Canada's move so far, with even Japan calling the withdrawl \"disappointing\" and China condeming it as \"preposterous\". Canada's environment minister Peter Kent defended the decision on Monday, saying it would save the country $14bn in emissions trading permits it could have had to buy for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.At the Durban climate talks last week, the EU committed to a new commitment period of the protocol.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Environment", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Climate change", "Russia", "Canada", "World news", "Green politics"], "title": "Russia supports Canada's withdrawal from Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:07:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Tens of thousands of Russians are expected to take to the streets on Saturday despite Kremlin efforts to ease tensions over disputed elections and Vladimir Putin's expected return to the presidency.More than 50,000 people have indicated their intention to attend a protest on Moscow's Sakharov Prospect, named after the late leading Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov. Thousands more have signed up via social networking sites for protests in more than 80 Russian cities.The protesters are hoping to capitalise on the momentum launched earlier this month, when up to 50,000 people turned out in Moscow alone demanding the Kremlin overturn parliamentary election results that saw Putin's United Russia take a majority in the Duma despite widespread accusations of fraud.The former Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev, the novelist Boris Akunin, the anti-corruption activist Alexey Navalny and Ksenia Sobchak, the Russian \"It Girl\" and daughter of Putin's mentor, are among those expected to address the crowd. Protesters will don white ribbons to symbolise their opposition to the election results, which they say are a sign of their country's lack of democracy. The oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov, who is running against Putin, also said he would address the rally.The Russian leadership has played a double game of mocking the protesters while proposing to liberalise the country's political system as it struggles to confront the largest ever challenge to its rule. Putin has twice compared the protesters' ribbons to condoms and repeatedly accused them of being in the pay of the US state department, while Dmitry Medvedev, the more liberal president, has issued a series of proposals to loosen the election laws.Protest organisers, holding their final organising committee meeting on Friday, said that Medvedev's proposals, issued during his final state of the nation address on Thursday, were not enough.\"It is not an answer \u2013 it's not what Bolotnaya expects and not what Sakharov Prospect expects,\" said the opposition leader Vladimir Ryzhkov, referring to the two protest sites. \"Medvedev didn't answer a host of our demands.\"Protesters are calling for election results to be overturned, the elections committee chief Vladimir Churov to be fired and political prisoners to be released. They have also begun to turn their attention to a 4 March presidential election, calling on disaffected Russians to vote against Putin as he seeks to return to the Kremlin after four years as prime minister.In a sign of increasing nervousness, Vladislav Surkov, the Kremlin's secretive chief ideologist, gave a rare interview published on Friday, in which he argued that \"the system has already changed\".\"People are saying: 'We exist, we have meaning, we are the people,'\" Surkov told Izvestiya newspaper. \"One cannot arrogantly dismiss their opinions.\" Surkov is the architect of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and \"power vertical\", two terms used to describe the country's soft authoritarian form of governance.In the same interview, Surkov followed Putin and Medvedev in claiming the protests were organised by outside forces. \"Of course there are those who wish to turn the protests into a colour revolution, that's for sure,\" he said, referring to pro-democracy revolutions that shook Georgia and Ukraine. He appeared to link Russia's protests to the Arab Spring by accusing demonstrators of following the instructions of the US political scientist Gene Sharp, whose book on revolution has been influential in recent popular uprisings. \"It's so by the book that it's boring,\" Surkov said. \"I want to suggest to these gentlemen that they cut themselves off from these instructions.\"Medvedev on Friday submitted to parliament a packet of draft bills easing rules for registering political parties and presidential candidates. At the same time, he promoted two officials notorious for their hardline background. On Thursday, the deputy prime minister, Sergei Ivanov, a former defence minister and close Putin ally, became the Kremlin chief of staff, a move likely designed to set the stage for Putin's return to the presidency. Medvedev appointed Dmitry Rogozin, an outspoken nationalist who is currently Russia's envoy to Nato, to replace him as deputy prime minister in charge of the military.", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Kremlin nervous as protesters return to streets of Russia"},{"date": "2011-12-18T00:12:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Khadzhimurad Kamalov was a battling editor doing his job \u2013 the essential job for any good journalist working in Dagestan. He reported the truth about official corruption, about organised crime, about the lawlessness that grips Russia's North Caucasus, and he surely knew the risks he was taking. The masked gunman who ambushed him outside his office last week and shot him a sickening 14 times or more was always a half-expected caller \u2013 just like the gunman who killed another Dagestan journalist, Yakhya Magomedov, in May. Though he was only shot four times.The more facts along this trail of blood, the more dismaying it becomes. Four journalists murdered in Vladimir Putin's Russia this year alone. That makes it a \"good year\" by some standards, because around 40 have been killed since he first came to hold power. We in the west may have registered a few dreadful cases \u2013 say, the murder of Anna Politkovskaya \u2013 but, year in and year out, something close to a silent slaughter has been allowed, even condoned. Crimes unchecked, often cursorily investigated. Crimes against freedom bathed in slothful impunity. Many, many die, but few merit even a semblance of justice.Of course, precise figuring in case after case isn't possible. A more general conclusion, though, is inescapable. Russia is one of the world's most perilous places to practise journalism or any kind of truth-telling. Far outside Moscow, in the scattered republics, anything goes \u2013 and goes unavenged. Inside Moscow, rulers who pay lip service to human rights parade only an indifference that makes them complicit in these crimes. Mr Kamalov died on the very day that Russia's journalist organisations had banded together to commemorate those of their colleagues who'd been slain. Bitter irony. How many more, Mr Putin? How long are we supposed to mourn fellow journalists who died trying to tell us, and their fellow Russians, what a slack, slimy, savage state you run?\u2022 This article was amended on 3 July 2012 to change the total of journalists killed since Vladimir Putin first came to hold power from 200 to \"around 40\". This correction was made in the newspaper on the day of publication but was not made in the online version at the time. Apologies.", "tags": ["Russia"], "title": "Truth is being murdered in Putin's bloody Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-18T00:06:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The future of Russian politics is unpredictable. Indeed, we may be seeing the dawn of a new era there. Or so conclude two perfectly competent Independent reports on Putin's winter of discontent. But it's not only Russia's would-be repeat president who has uncertainty to grapple with: this could also be a bit of a new era test for Alexander Lebedev and his son Evgeny, owner and chairman respectively of the Indy and Evening Standard empire.Is Lebedev senior an admirer, a critic or a thumbsucker when it comes to Putin? Will Indy leader-writers be able to call openly for the old KGB fixer to go if he turns police truncheons and gas canisters on the young marchers who demand his departure? Does Lebedev want another eight years of Putin in charge, or not? And will the Independents reflect his wishes (or even find out what they are)?No verbal grenades flying yet. The Lebedev ownership in Kensington has been hands off, and full of pristine sentiments. There's no manifest reason to fear what may come next \u2013 but every reason to watch very closely indeed.", "tags": ["Alexander Lebedev", "Evgeny Lebedev", "The Independent", "Independent on Sunday", "London Evening Standard", "Independent News & Media", "National newspapers", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "As Russia shakes, which way will the Lebedevs fall?"},{"date": "2011-12-14T15:07:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russians are not the French. We don't go on the streets every weekend for a protest simply because we have no other plans. The Russian people only protest openly when we are hurt to the bottom of our hearts. We aren't naive, we know we've never had fair elections in our history. But why are we protesting now? Why not at previous elections?Last week we found out that there are many degrees of unfairness. Some of it can be tolerated, and some simply cannot. If we go back to the 1996 presidential elections in which Boris Yeltsin and Gennady Zyuganov both won just over 30% in the first round and were preparing for a runoff, Yeltsin made a deal with General Lebed, who finished third with 14.5%, to convince his supporters to vote for Yeltsin. It was a dirty, unfair, undemocratic deal, but Yeltsin didn't rely on counting votes as it pleased him, however people actually voted. Instead he was determined to convince people to vote for him.In the 2007 parliamentary elections the United Russia party won 64% of the vote. Everybody in Russia knew those elections weren't exactly fair. The police and army were forced into supporting United Russia; some parties weren't allowed to participate in elections for ridiculous reasons; TV channels didn't give equal time to different parties; the 7% threshold didn't allow most parties to get any seats in the Duma and so on. But still, some people decided to vote for United Russia. They had their reasons, and we are not to judge.The problem with this month's elections was that those 25,000 to 100,000 people (everybody gives different numbers) who were on the streets of Moscow, and hundreds of others in other Russian cities and in the rest of the world: none of us voted for United Russia, nor, in many cases, have we met anybody who did. And that was a problem, not the 7% threshold or time dedicated on TV, but open and shameless cheating with the count. Where are the 49% of people who voted for United Russia? Even President Medvedev's wife voted for the Fair Russia party. The authorities felt they were a shepherd with a flock of sheep, but they were wrong. As one of the protesters in London said: \"The Russians have grown from people into citizens.\" These citizens are able to think for themselves, act as individuals and would not allow their votes to be counted for them.On the night before the 10 December protests I could not sleep. I was worried about protesters in Moscow. It's so easy for the violence to be sparked when hundreds of thousands gather in the same area. In the morning I could not sit still, I was ready to go and participate in the London solidarity protest already by 8am, although it was not supposed to start until 11. It was not a question for me whether to participate or not. I was as deeply hurt as all other Russians were. There was simply no choice.The important point to stress is that these protests are not against Putin, as some believe. They are against unfair elections. Whether Putin has got a chance if fair elections are held is a different question, and it's up to an every individual Russian citizen to decide.Will we achieve a re-run of the election and fair count of votes? We will have to see. In case of a re-run I would vote for Yabloko again, as I did on 4 December. Yabloko is a relatively small, leftwing party that I have never been a member of, but always voted for. The reason I vote for them is because I believe more parties should be able to be represented in the Duma, but the unfair 7% threshold doesn't allow them to get in.However, the question I can't stop asking myself is if Yabloko is given the same \"opportunity\" as United Russia to count votes as they please, would they use this \"opportunity\" or not? Honestly, I don't know the answer. Probably, Yabloko doesn't know the answer either.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Vladimir Putin", "Protest"], "title": "Russia is protesting against unfair elections, not against Putin | Ekaterina Zatuliveter"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-11T09:55:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Peter Preston, in today's Observer, catalogues the deaths of journalists in Russia in the dozen years since Vladimir Putin came to power. It makes for grim reading, but it merits repeating by as many journalists outside Russia as often as possible:\"In 2011, three journalists dead (including newspaper editor Khadzhimurad Kamalov, shot 14 times as he left his office). In 2010, two killed; in 2009, five more (including a young reporter from Novaya Gazeta, caught in a hail of bullets). Add four for 2008, one in 2007 and then 2006 as Anna Politkovskaya, the most famous victim of them all, is murdered.But she wouldn't forget Yevgeny Gerasimenko \u2013 found in his Saratov flat with a plastic bag pulled over his head and computer missing \u2013 and nor should we.Two Russian journalists died in 2005, and three in both 2004 and 2003; but 2002 was a wicked year, with eight lost (including Valery Ivanov, battling editor, shot in the head) and 2001 added another victim. Putin's reign of power in 2000 began with six dead reporters and editors: a grim portent, looking back, of bad things to come.\"Preston concludes: \"He is elected time and again. Yet a free press seems to mean pitifully little to him. You investigate? You report? You die, unavenged.\"Source: The Observer", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Journalistic death toll in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-11T09:55:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Peter Preston, in today's Observer, catalogues the deaths of journalists in Russia in the dozen years since Vladimir Putin came to power. It makes for grim reading, but it merits repeating by as many journalists outside Russia as often as possible:\"In 2011, three journalists dead (including newspaper editor Khadzhimurad Kamalov, shot 14 times as he left his office). In 2010, two killed; in 2009, five more (including a young reporter from Novaya Gazeta, caught in a hail of bullets). Add four for 2008, one in 2007 and then 2006 as Anna Politkovskaya, the most famous victim of them all, is murdered.But she wouldn't forget Yevgeny Gerasimenko \u2013 found in his Saratov flat with a plastic bag pulled over his head and computer missing \u2013 and nor should we.Two Russian journalists died in 2005, and three in both 2004 and 2003; but 2002 was a wicked year, with eight lost (including Valery Ivanov, battling editor, shot in the head) and 2001 added another victim. Putin's reign of power in 2000 began with six dead reporters and editors: a grim portent, looking back, of bad things to come.\"Preston concludes: \"He is elected time and again. Yet a free press seems to mean pitifully little to him. You investigate? You report? You die, unavenged.\"Source: The Observer", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Journalistic death toll in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-05T00:22:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was never any question that Vladimir Putin would win a third term as president. An All-Russian Public Opinion Research Centre poll back in mid February put Putin on 53.5%, already an outright first round win and 42 points ahead of his nearest rival, the communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. So last night's initial exit poll figures giving him around 59%, did not look wildly out of line. The real issues are how he won, and where he lost.Hours before the first results, the opposition leader Alexei Navalny called the violations that had taken place yesterday irrefutable, and a Moscow Times photographer snapped a busload of hired hands moving from one polling station to another in the Kurkino district of northwest Moscow, evidence of the so-called voting carousel. The bussing in of Putin supporters to the capital, to boost his vote in a city that would have humiliated him had it been left to vote freely, was so extensive and so blatant that one member of the nationalist pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi admitted to our reporter that he had been transported to the city just to vote. Navalny's claims of widespread election fraud were soon followed by the communist party, who said that they could not consider the elections free or fair after the volume of complaints they had received.The battle that will unfold over the next 24 hours will be less over the fact that Putin got re-elected as president than it will be over the cheating that went on. The national result will radicalise his opponents less effectively than the local one. The gap between the official result in Moscow and St Petersburg, and what Muscovites and Peterburgers know to be true in their own city districts, is what will fuel the demonstrations due to take place today. Having already had one vote stolen from them in December, this will feel like a second slap in the face.Whether such tactics were wise for a president, who would have won anyway, is dubious indeed. Last night in his victory speech he appealed for unity, but mass demos and a strong police presence are no way to foster that. After the collapse of the popularity of his party, United Russia, in December, Putin needs to build a party and a new consensus. It will have to be a coalition if it is to address the core issues that brought so many of Russia's best and brightest out on to the streets.He has thus far made minimal concessions to the democratic awakening stirred in December. He had changed the laws on registering parties and candidates at future elections, but touched little else. Even his supporters do not know how Putin can avoid stagnation if he continues on the same path. But his opponents know one thing: the more Putin rubs his power into their faces, the more he risks provoking the explosion nobody in Russia wants.", "tags": ["Russian presidential election 2012", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's carousel arrives in town | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-11T09:55:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Peter Preston, in today's Observer, catalogues the deaths of journalists in Russia in the dozen years since Vladimir Putin came to power. It makes for grim reading, but it merits repeating by as many journalists outside Russia as often as possible:\"In 2011, three journalists dead (including newspaper editor Khadzhimurad Kamalov, shot 14 times as he left his office). In 2010, two killed; in 2009, five more (including a young reporter from Novaya Gazeta, caught in a hail of bullets). Add four for 2008, one in 2007 and then 2006 as Anna Politkovskaya, the most famous victim of them all, is murdered.But she wouldn't forget Yevgeny Gerasimenko \u2013 found in his Saratov flat with a plastic bag pulled over his head and computer missing \u2013 and nor should we.Two Russian journalists died in 2005, and three in both 2004 and 2003; but 2002 was a wicked year, with eight lost (including Valery Ivanov, battling editor, shot in the head) and 2001 added another victim. Putin's reign of power in 2000 began with six dead reporters and editors: a grim portent, looking back, of bad things to come.\"Preston concludes: \"He is elected time and again. Yet a free press seems to mean pitifully little to him. You investigate? You report? You die, unavenged.\"Source: The Observer", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Journalistic death toll in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-05T00:22:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was never any question that Vladimir Putin would win a third term as president. An All-Russian Public Opinion Research Centre poll back in mid February put Putin on 53.5%, already an outright first round win and 42 points ahead of his nearest rival, the communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. So last night's initial exit poll figures giving him around 59%, did not look wildly out of line. The real issues are how he won, and where he lost.Hours before the first results, the opposition leader Alexei Navalny called the violations that had taken place yesterday irrefutable, and a Moscow Times photographer snapped a busload of hired hands moving from one polling station to another in the Kurkino district of northwest Moscow, evidence of the so-called voting carousel. The bussing in of Putin supporters to the capital, to boost his vote in a city that would have humiliated him had it been left to vote freely, was so extensive and so blatant that one member of the nationalist pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi admitted to our reporter that he had been transported to the city just to vote. Navalny's claims of widespread election fraud were soon followed by the communist party, who said that they could not consider the elections free or fair after the volume of complaints they had received.The battle that will unfold over the next 24 hours will be less over the fact that Putin got re-elected as president than it will be over the cheating that went on. The national result will radicalise his opponents less effectively than the local one. The gap between the official result in Moscow and St Petersburg, and what Muscovites and Peterburgers know to be true in their own city districts, is what will fuel the demonstrations due to take place today. Having already had one vote stolen from them in December, this will feel like a second slap in the face.Whether such tactics were wise for a president, who would have won anyway, is dubious indeed. Last night in his victory speech he appealed for unity, but mass demos and a strong police presence are no way to foster that. After the collapse of the popularity of his party, United Russia, in December, Putin needs to build a party and a new consensus. It will have to be a coalition if it is to address the core issues that brought so many of Russia's best and brightest out on to the streets.He has thus far made minimal concessions to the democratic awakening stirred in December. He had changed the laws on registering parties and candidates at future elections, but touched little else. Even his supporters do not know how Putin can avoid stagnation if he continues on the same path. But his opponents know one thing: the more Putin rubs his power into their faces, the more he risks provoking the explosion nobody in Russia wants.", "tags": ["Russian presidential election 2012", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's carousel arrives in town | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-26T21:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While this year promises hotly contested battles for the presidencies of France and the US, only in Russia does the outcome seem a foregone conclusion. But whereas we might be reasonably sure of the result, we should not assume that there is little at stake.For western eyes, the neat swap of titles from prime minister to president by Vladimir Putin \u2013 suitably circumventing Russia's rule that prevents a president from serving more than two terms consecutively \u2013 may appear to suggest business as usual in the closed world of Kremlin politics. But that was not the view taken by many Russians, insulted by the self-asserting proclamation of immovable presidential power stretching over the next decade and more. The poor, middle class and wealthy filled the streets, incensed by allegations of vote rigging and dirty tricks in the Duma elections in December. This movement, supported even by Russian elites, has exploded the long-held myth that the people want to stick with Putin just for the sake of stability.Putin responded to the demonstrators with mockery and chauvinism, saying he mistook the white ribbon they wore for the condoms of safe sex campaigners. But the authorities also responded \u2013 quietly \u2013 with reform, permitting the registration of new political parties for future Duma elections, and election rather than appointment of regional governors. These steps are capable of changing much in Russia, a catalyst, perhaps unintended, for a more fundamental transformation.They give hope that the seeds of modernity can be planted across the Russian Federation with the brightest and best coming forward as candidates for public office. Opposition figures capable of challenging existing power structures will grow \u2013 but the opposition will have to consolidate into two or three new parties, with the capacity and strength to challenge the status quo, avoiding the Kremlin trap of divide and rule among myriad rivals.But if that is the vision for the future, what prospects for the presidential elections next week? I hope we will see a large turnout, with my fellow citizens taking a long hard look at the alternative four \"candidates\", even if many would have preferred different names, who were not allowed to be there. The last time Putin stood for president he won resoundingly in the first round. If he is forced into a run-off this time, it would be an altogether different situation.A second round would confirm that the change we all seek is on its way: an evolutionary and not a revolutionary approach can be the way forward. We do not want the bloodshed on our streets seen elsewhere \u2013 but we do want things to be different. It must be the role of our generation to change the paradigm in Russia without a civil war.Abuse of power in Russian politics has been allowed to flourish too long. We need to modernise our economy, build a genuine civil society, end legal nihilism and stamp out corruption. We need to do this to build a better life for our children and our children's children, and for the country we love to prosper and to be engaged usefully in a changed and changing world.We have only to reflect on the Arab spring to recognise the transformation taking place in the compact between the rulers and the ruled. While there are certainly many differences between those countries and Russia, there are some fundamental similarities.From Cairo to Damascus, from Moscow to Magadan, people want to be treated with dignity and respect \u2013 and Russia is no exception!The Arab spring has shown us that nobody can hold back the power of modern technology to inform and to mobilise. Technology has empowered the people.And Russia's educated and growing middle classes should comprise a majority in just 10 years. They will continue to demand a real seat at the table in a system of democracy and pluralism, and they will not take no for an answer.Nobody expects this to happen overnight \u2013 but next Sunday's vote holds out the chance to end the would-be president's monopoly of power. We should not be afraid. By forcing a second round we will push our country down the path of positive change. Presidential power that previously answered to no one would have to start listening to the people it serves. The state that until now took the monopolistic presidential power for granted would be more wary of its hold and start moderating its behaviour. The politicians who gathered the opposition votes could become a force to be reckoned with, a voice for articulating the thoughts and views that have been ignored before. The establishment would have to start negotiating with the opposition and an evolutionary transition could meaningfully begin.I would also welcome a change of position from western countries. They should stop dancing to the whistle of the gas pipe. They need to speak loud and clear with one voice about real democratic reforms, recognising that the only way to secure our mutual interests in the long term is for governments to stop hiding behind the stability myth, legitimising a regime that is deceiving its own people \u2013 the people who are starting to wake up.And so I ask you to watch with interest the results of this year's election. In France and the US, the presidential vote is about choosing between differing political visions and outcomes. In my country the electoral calculus is a little simpler: choose Putin in the first round or in the second round. But do not be fooled! \"President\" Putin's return to the Kremlin, after either manipulating the first round or being forced into a second round, without doubt puts the world on notice that real political change in Russia is unavoidable. It will be welcomed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news"], "title": "Real political change in Russia is unavoidable | Mikhail Khodorkovsky"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-11T09:55:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Peter Preston, in today's Observer, catalogues the deaths of journalists in Russia in the dozen years since Vladimir Putin came to power. It makes for grim reading, but it merits repeating by as many journalists outside Russia as often as possible:\"In 2011, three journalists dead (including newspaper editor Khadzhimurad Kamalov, shot 14 times as he left his office). In 2010, two killed; in 2009, five more (including a young reporter from Novaya Gazeta, caught in a hail of bullets). Add four for 2008, one in 2007 and then 2006 as Anna Politkovskaya, the most famous victim of them all, is murdered.But she wouldn't forget Yevgeny Gerasimenko \u2013 found in his Saratov flat with a plastic bag pulled over his head and computer missing \u2013 and nor should we.Two Russian journalists died in 2005, and three in both 2004 and 2003; but 2002 was a wicked year, with eight lost (including Valery Ivanov, battling editor, shot in the head) and 2001 added another victim. Putin's reign of power in 2000 began with six dead reporters and editors: a grim portent, looking back, of bad things to come.\"Preston concludes: \"He is elected time and again. Yet a free press seems to mean pitifully little to him. You investigate? You report? You die, unavenged.\"Source: The Observer", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Journalistic death toll in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-05T00:22:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was never any question that Vladimir Putin would win a third term as president. An All-Russian Public Opinion Research Centre poll back in mid February put Putin on 53.5%, already an outright first round win and 42 points ahead of his nearest rival, the communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. So last night's initial exit poll figures giving him around 59%, did not look wildly out of line. The real issues are how he won, and where he lost.Hours before the first results, the opposition leader Alexei Navalny called the violations that had taken place yesterday irrefutable, and a Moscow Times photographer snapped a busload of hired hands moving from one polling station to another in the Kurkino district of northwest Moscow, evidence of the so-called voting carousel. The bussing in of Putin supporters to the capital, to boost his vote in a city that would have humiliated him had it been left to vote freely, was so extensive and so blatant that one member of the nationalist pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi admitted to our reporter that he had been transported to the city just to vote. Navalny's claims of widespread election fraud were soon followed by the communist party, who said that they could not consider the elections free or fair after the volume of complaints they had received.The battle that will unfold over the next 24 hours will be less over the fact that Putin got re-elected as president than it will be over the cheating that went on. The national result will radicalise his opponents less effectively than the local one. The gap between the official result in Moscow and St Petersburg, and what Muscovites and Peterburgers know to be true in their own city districts, is what will fuel the demonstrations due to take place today. Having already had one vote stolen from them in December, this will feel like a second slap in the face.Whether such tactics were wise for a president, who would have won anyway, is dubious indeed. Last night in his victory speech he appealed for unity, but mass demos and a strong police presence are no way to foster that. After the collapse of the popularity of his party, United Russia, in December, Putin needs to build a party and a new consensus. It will have to be a coalition if it is to address the core issues that brought so many of Russia's best and brightest out on to the streets.He has thus far made minimal concessions to the democratic awakening stirred in December. He had changed the laws on registering parties and candidates at future elections, but touched little else. Even his supporters do not know how Putin can avoid stagnation if he continues on the same path. But his opponents know one thing: the more Putin rubs his power into their faces, the more he risks provoking the explosion nobody in Russia wants.", "tags": ["Russian presidential election 2012", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's carousel arrives in town | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-26T21:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While this year promises hotly contested battles for the presidencies of France and the US, only in Russia does the outcome seem a foregone conclusion. But whereas we might be reasonably sure of the result, we should not assume that there is little at stake.For western eyes, the neat swap of titles from prime minister to president by Vladimir Putin \u2013 suitably circumventing Russia's rule that prevents a president from serving more than two terms consecutively \u2013 may appear to suggest business as usual in the closed world of Kremlin politics. But that was not the view taken by many Russians, insulted by the self-asserting proclamation of immovable presidential power stretching over the next decade and more. The poor, middle class and wealthy filled the streets, incensed by allegations of vote rigging and dirty tricks in the Duma elections in December. This movement, supported even by Russian elites, has exploded the long-held myth that the people want to stick with Putin just for the sake of stability.Putin responded to the demonstrators with mockery and chauvinism, saying he mistook the white ribbon they wore for the condoms of safe sex campaigners. But the authorities also responded \u2013 quietly \u2013 with reform, permitting the registration of new political parties for future Duma elections, and election rather than appointment of regional governors. These steps are capable of changing much in Russia, a catalyst, perhaps unintended, for a more fundamental transformation.They give hope that the seeds of modernity can be planted across the Russian Federation with the brightest and best coming forward as candidates for public office. Opposition figures capable of challenging existing power structures will grow \u2013 but the opposition will have to consolidate into two or three new parties, with the capacity and strength to challenge the status quo, avoiding the Kremlin trap of divide and rule among myriad rivals.But if that is the vision for the future, what prospects for the presidential elections next week? I hope we will see a large turnout, with my fellow citizens taking a long hard look at the alternative four \"candidates\", even if many would have preferred different names, who were not allowed to be there. The last time Putin stood for president he won resoundingly in the first round. If he is forced into a run-off this time, it would be an altogether different situation.A second round would confirm that the change we all seek is on its way: an evolutionary and not a revolutionary approach can be the way forward. We do not want the bloodshed on our streets seen elsewhere \u2013 but we do want things to be different. It must be the role of our generation to change the paradigm in Russia without a civil war.Abuse of power in Russian politics has been allowed to flourish too long. We need to modernise our economy, build a genuine civil society, end legal nihilism and stamp out corruption. We need to do this to build a better life for our children and our children's children, and for the country we love to prosper and to be engaged usefully in a changed and changing world.We have only to reflect on the Arab spring to recognise the transformation taking place in the compact between the rulers and the ruled. While there are certainly many differences between those countries and Russia, there are some fundamental similarities.From Cairo to Damascus, from Moscow to Magadan, people want to be treated with dignity and respect \u2013 and Russia is no exception!The Arab spring has shown us that nobody can hold back the power of modern technology to inform and to mobilise. Technology has empowered the people.And Russia's educated and growing middle classes should comprise a majority in just 10 years. They will continue to demand a real seat at the table in a system of democracy and pluralism, and they will not take no for an answer.Nobody expects this to happen overnight \u2013 but next Sunday's vote holds out the chance to end the would-be president's monopoly of power. We should not be afraid. By forcing a second round we will push our country down the path of positive change. Presidential power that previously answered to no one would have to start listening to the people it serves. The state that until now took the monopolistic presidential power for granted would be more wary of its hold and start moderating its behaviour. The politicians who gathered the opposition votes could become a force to be reckoned with, a voice for articulating the thoughts and views that have been ignored before. The establishment would have to start negotiating with the opposition and an evolutionary transition could meaningfully begin.I would also welcome a change of position from western countries. They should stop dancing to the whistle of the gas pipe. They need to speak loud and clear with one voice about real democratic reforms, recognising that the only way to secure our mutual interests in the long term is for governments to stop hiding behind the stability myth, legitimising a regime that is deceiving its own people \u2013 the people who are starting to wake up.And so I ask you to watch with interest the results of this year's election. In France and the US, the presidential vote is about choosing between differing political visions and outcomes. In my country the electoral calculus is a little simpler: choose Putin in the first round or in the second round. But do not be fooled! \"President\" Putin's return to the Kremlin, after either manipulating the first round or being forced into a second round, without doubt puts the world on notice that real political change in Russia is unavoidable. It will be welcomed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news"], "title": "Real political change in Russia is unavoidable | Mikhail Khodorkovsky"},{"date": "2012-02-07T19:49:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has put itself at the centre of efforts to resolve the deepening Syrian crisis , calling for an \"Arab solution\" to the uprising against Bashar al-Assad's regime as more civilians were killed in a government assault on the city of Homs.Three days after Moscow infuriated western and Arab countries by vetoing a UN resolution on Syria, Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, flew to Damascus to hear Assad pledge a referendum on a new constitution and request that Arab League monitors \u2013 withdrawn last month \u2013 return to Syria.The visit came as the UN children's fund reported that at least 400 children had been killed in the past 11 months of violence in Syria, with a similar number detained and many reported to have been subjected to torture and sexual\u00a0abuse.\"As of the end of January, 400 children are dead and more than 400 have been detained,\" said Unicef spokeswoman Marixie Mercado. \"There are reports of children arbitrarily arrested, tortured and sexually abused while in detention.\"On Tuesday, six Arab Gulf states and Tunisia followed the US and several European countries in recalling their ambassadors, a deliberate signal of mounting international alarm at a crisis which many are already describing as a civil war.Assad promised to \"stop violence regardless of where it may come from\". But the regime's actions belied this statement. Syrian state media reported a determination to continue fighting \"armed terrorist gangs,\" amidst mounting evidence that most casualties in Homs are civilians. Hundreds are said to have died since shelling began on Friday. At least 95 people were killed there on Monday and nine more on Tuesday, the Syrian revolution general commission reported.\"We [Russia] confirmed our readiness to act for a rapid solution to the crisis based on the plan put forward by the Arab League,\" Lavrov said, though Syrian officials insisted that he was not referring to the current plan which calls for Assad to hand power to his deputy \u2013 interpreted by Moscow as tantamount to the \"regime change\" it objected to in Libya last year.Syria's state news agency, Sana, reported: \"Syria is determined to carry out national dialogue with the participation of representatives of the government, the opposition and independent figures.\"But neither Russian nor Syrian official reporting of the talks made any mention of freeing detainees or withdrawing troops and tanks from built-up areas, both conditions of an Arab League peace plan that had appeared to be defunct.Lavrov, with Russia's foreign intelligence chief in tow, flew to the Syrian capital after Moscow last Saturday vetoed a UN security council resolution that backed a \"Syrian-led political transition\" without calling on Assad to surrender power or even threatening sanctions.Syrian media highlighted the visit as demonstrating Moscow's support for Assad. State TV showed hundreds of people gathering to welcome Lavrov, waving Syrian, Russian and Hezbollah flags and holding up Russian flags made out of hundreds of white, blue and red balloons.Ad-Dounia, a private channel that outdoes even state media in its fervent loyalty to the regime, claimed that one million people had turned out to greet the Russians.Few details were available of what transpired behind closed doors, but diplomats and analysts said that while Assad's position looked like familiar \"window-dressing,\" Lavrov did offer some hope of diplomatic movement towards dialogue.One western official said: \"Assad still has his head in the sand if he thinks he can talk about reform without showing any results while he carries on the security crackdown. But it was encouraging that Lavrov showed support for the Arab League plan after vetoing it at the UN.\"British diplomats said William Hague, the foreign secretary, was planning to speak to Lavrov to hear a full account of his meeting with the Syrian leader.Hague also plans to talk to Sheikh Hamed bin Jassim al-Thani, Qatar's prime minister and the Arab League's chief hawk on Syria. The Arab League is to meet in Cairo on Saturday to review the crisis.Next moves include a first meeting of the new Friends of Syria grouping, which will work outside the UN to back Syria's opposition and seek a peaceful solution to the crisis. It looks unlikely, for now at least, to follow the example of the \"contact group\" set up to handle Libya last year, and formally recognise Assad's opponents as a legitimate government or openly supply them with weapons. Individual countries may do so in secret, however.John McCain, the US Republican senator, called on the US to look at that possibility now. \"We should start considering all options, including arming the opposition,\" he told reporters in Washington. \"The blood-letting has got to stop.\"European countries are planning new efforts to forge greater unity among the Syrian opposition, which is beset by rivalries and divisions. These risk bursting into the open if Assad \u2013 prodded by the Russians \u2013 does eventually make any substantive political concessions.Observers believe one possibility is the formation of a national unity government. \"That would muddy the waters,\" said commentator Malik al-Abdeh, who runs the opposition Barada TV. \"It could split the [Syrian National Council, or SNC] because some people will think they've backed the wrong horse. The [National Co-ordination Body] have always said that the solution is in Moscow, not in New York.\"George Sabra, a senior member of the SNC, signalled on Tuesday that the mood may be changing. \"We think Russia should provide a roadmap for \u2026 a dialogue,\" the Interfax news agency quoted him as saying. \"Then all the opposition groups can take corresponding steps. But no one will engage in dialogue just for dialogue's sake.\"", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Syrian crisis needs Arab solution, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-11T09:55:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Peter Preston, in today's Observer, catalogues the deaths of journalists in Russia in the dozen years since Vladimir Putin came to power. It makes for grim reading, but it merits repeating by as many journalists outside Russia as often as possible:\"In 2011, three journalists dead (including newspaper editor Khadzhimurad Kamalov, shot 14 times as he left his office). In 2010, two killed; in 2009, five more (including a young reporter from Novaya Gazeta, caught in a hail of bullets). Add four for 2008, one in 2007 and then 2006 as Anna Politkovskaya, the most famous victim of them all, is murdered.But she wouldn't forget Yevgeny Gerasimenko \u2013 found in his Saratov flat with a plastic bag pulled over his head and computer missing \u2013 and nor should we.Two Russian journalists died in 2005, and three in both 2004 and 2003; but 2002 was a wicked year, with eight lost (including Valery Ivanov, battling editor, shot in the head) and 2001 added another victim. Putin's reign of power in 2000 began with six dead reporters and editors: a grim portent, looking back, of bad things to come.\"Preston concludes: \"He is elected time and again. Yet a free press seems to mean pitifully little to him. You investigate? You report? You die, unavenged.\"Source: The Observer", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Journalistic death toll in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-05T00:22:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was never any question that Vladimir Putin would win a third term as president. An All-Russian Public Opinion Research Centre poll back in mid February put Putin on 53.5%, already an outright first round win and 42 points ahead of his nearest rival, the communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. So last night's initial exit poll figures giving him around 59%, did not look wildly out of line. The real issues are how he won, and where he lost.Hours before the first results, the opposition leader Alexei Navalny called the violations that had taken place yesterday irrefutable, and a Moscow Times photographer snapped a busload of hired hands moving from one polling station to another in the Kurkino district of northwest Moscow, evidence of the so-called voting carousel. The bussing in of Putin supporters to the capital, to boost his vote in a city that would have humiliated him had it been left to vote freely, was so extensive and so blatant that one member of the nationalist pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi admitted to our reporter that he had been transported to the city just to vote. Navalny's claims of widespread election fraud were soon followed by the communist party, who said that they could not consider the elections free or fair after the volume of complaints they had received.The battle that will unfold over the next 24 hours will be less over the fact that Putin got re-elected as president than it will be over the cheating that went on. The national result will radicalise his opponents less effectively than the local one. The gap between the official result in Moscow and St Petersburg, and what Muscovites and Peterburgers know to be true in their own city districts, is what will fuel the demonstrations due to take place today. Having already had one vote stolen from them in December, this will feel like a second slap in the face.Whether such tactics were wise for a president, who would have won anyway, is dubious indeed. Last night in his victory speech he appealed for unity, but mass demos and a strong police presence are no way to foster that. After the collapse of the popularity of his party, United Russia, in December, Putin needs to build a party and a new consensus. It will have to be a coalition if it is to address the core issues that brought so many of Russia's best and brightest out on to the streets.He has thus far made minimal concessions to the democratic awakening stirred in December. He had changed the laws on registering parties and candidates at future elections, but touched little else. Even his supporters do not know how Putin can avoid stagnation if he continues on the same path. But his opponents know one thing: the more Putin rubs his power into their faces, the more he risks provoking the explosion nobody in Russia wants.", "tags": ["Russian presidential election 2012", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's carousel arrives in town | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-26T21:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While this year promises hotly contested battles for the presidencies of France and the US, only in Russia does the outcome seem a foregone conclusion. But whereas we might be reasonably sure of the result, we should not assume that there is little at stake.For western eyes, the neat swap of titles from prime minister to president by Vladimir Putin \u2013 suitably circumventing Russia's rule that prevents a president from serving more than two terms consecutively \u2013 may appear to suggest business as usual in the closed world of Kremlin politics. But that was not the view taken by many Russians, insulted by the self-asserting proclamation of immovable presidential power stretching over the next decade and more. The poor, middle class and wealthy filled the streets, incensed by allegations of vote rigging and dirty tricks in the Duma elections in December. This movement, supported even by Russian elites, has exploded the long-held myth that the people want to stick with Putin just for the sake of stability.Putin responded to the demonstrators with mockery and chauvinism, saying he mistook the white ribbon they wore for the condoms of safe sex campaigners. But the authorities also responded \u2013 quietly \u2013 with reform, permitting the registration of new political parties for future Duma elections, and election rather than appointment of regional governors. These steps are capable of changing much in Russia, a catalyst, perhaps unintended, for a more fundamental transformation.They give hope that the seeds of modernity can be planted across the Russian Federation with the brightest and best coming forward as candidates for public office. Opposition figures capable of challenging existing power structures will grow \u2013 but the opposition will have to consolidate into two or three new parties, with the capacity and strength to challenge the status quo, avoiding the Kremlin trap of divide and rule among myriad rivals.But if that is the vision for the future, what prospects for the presidential elections next week? I hope we will see a large turnout, with my fellow citizens taking a long hard look at the alternative four \"candidates\", even if many would have preferred different names, who were not allowed to be there. The last time Putin stood for president he won resoundingly in the first round. If he is forced into a run-off this time, it would be an altogether different situation.A second round would confirm that the change we all seek is on its way: an evolutionary and not a revolutionary approach can be the way forward. We do not want the bloodshed on our streets seen elsewhere \u2013 but we do want things to be different. It must be the role of our generation to change the paradigm in Russia without a civil war.Abuse of power in Russian politics has been allowed to flourish too long. We need to modernise our economy, build a genuine civil society, end legal nihilism and stamp out corruption. We need to do this to build a better life for our children and our children's children, and for the country we love to prosper and to be engaged usefully in a changed and changing world.We have only to reflect on the Arab spring to recognise the transformation taking place in the compact between the rulers and the ruled. While there are certainly many differences between those countries and Russia, there are some fundamental similarities.From Cairo to Damascus, from Moscow to Magadan, people want to be treated with dignity and respect \u2013 and Russia is no exception!The Arab spring has shown us that nobody can hold back the power of modern technology to inform and to mobilise. Technology has empowered the people.And Russia's educated and growing middle classes should comprise a majority in just 10 years. They will continue to demand a real seat at the table in a system of democracy and pluralism, and they will not take no for an answer.Nobody expects this to happen overnight \u2013 but next Sunday's vote holds out the chance to end the would-be president's monopoly of power. We should not be afraid. By forcing a second round we will push our country down the path of positive change. Presidential power that previously answered to no one would have to start listening to the people it serves. The state that until now took the monopolistic presidential power for granted would be more wary of its hold and start moderating its behaviour. The politicians who gathered the opposition votes could become a force to be reckoned with, a voice for articulating the thoughts and views that have been ignored before. The establishment would have to start negotiating with the opposition and an evolutionary transition could meaningfully begin.I would also welcome a change of position from western countries. They should stop dancing to the whistle of the gas pipe. They need to speak loud and clear with one voice about real democratic reforms, recognising that the only way to secure our mutual interests in the long term is for governments to stop hiding behind the stability myth, legitimising a regime that is deceiving its own people \u2013 the people who are starting to wake up.And so I ask you to watch with interest the results of this year's election. In France and the US, the presidential vote is about choosing between differing political visions and outcomes. In my country the electoral calculus is a little simpler: choose Putin in the first round or in the second round. But do not be fooled! \"President\" Putin's return to the Kremlin, after either manipulating the first round or being forced into a second round, without doubt puts the world on notice that real political change in Russia is unavoidable. It will be welcomed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news"], "title": "Real political change in Russia is unavoidable | Mikhail Khodorkovsky"},{"date": "2012-02-07T19:49:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has put itself at the centre of efforts to resolve the deepening Syrian crisis , calling for an \"Arab solution\" to the uprising against Bashar al-Assad's regime as more civilians were killed in a government assault on the city of Homs.Three days after Moscow infuriated western and Arab countries by vetoing a UN resolution on Syria, Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, flew to Damascus to hear Assad pledge a referendum on a new constitution and request that Arab League monitors \u2013 withdrawn last month \u2013 return to Syria.The visit came as the UN children's fund reported that at least 400 children had been killed in the past 11 months of violence in Syria, with a similar number detained and many reported to have been subjected to torture and sexual\u00a0abuse.\"As of the end of January, 400 children are dead and more than 400 have been detained,\" said Unicef spokeswoman Marixie Mercado. \"There are reports of children arbitrarily arrested, tortured and sexually abused while in detention.\"On Tuesday, six Arab Gulf states and Tunisia followed the US and several European countries in recalling their ambassadors, a deliberate signal of mounting international alarm at a crisis which many are already describing as a civil war.Assad promised to \"stop violence regardless of where it may come from\". But the regime's actions belied this statement. Syrian state media reported a determination to continue fighting \"armed terrorist gangs,\" amidst mounting evidence that most casualties in Homs are civilians. Hundreds are said to have died since shelling began on Friday. At least 95 people were killed there on Monday and nine more on Tuesday, the Syrian revolution general commission reported.\"We [Russia] confirmed our readiness to act for a rapid solution to the crisis based on the plan put forward by the Arab League,\" Lavrov said, though Syrian officials insisted that he was not referring to the current plan which calls for Assad to hand power to his deputy \u2013 interpreted by Moscow as tantamount to the \"regime change\" it objected to in Libya last year.Syria's state news agency, Sana, reported: \"Syria is determined to carry out national dialogue with the participation of representatives of the government, the opposition and independent figures.\"But neither Russian nor Syrian official reporting of the talks made any mention of freeing detainees or withdrawing troops and tanks from built-up areas, both conditions of an Arab League peace plan that had appeared to be defunct.Lavrov, with Russia's foreign intelligence chief in tow, flew to the Syrian capital after Moscow last Saturday vetoed a UN security council resolution that backed a \"Syrian-led political transition\" without calling on Assad to surrender power or even threatening sanctions.Syrian media highlighted the visit as demonstrating Moscow's support for Assad. State TV showed hundreds of people gathering to welcome Lavrov, waving Syrian, Russian and Hezbollah flags and holding up Russian flags made out of hundreds of white, blue and red balloons.Ad-Dounia, a private channel that outdoes even state media in its fervent loyalty to the regime, claimed that one million people had turned out to greet the Russians.Few details were available of what transpired behind closed doors, but diplomats and analysts said that while Assad's position looked like familiar \"window-dressing,\" Lavrov did offer some hope of diplomatic movement towards dialogue.One western official said: \"Assad still has his head in the sand if he thinks he can talk about reform without showing any results while he carries on the security crackdown. But it was encouraging that Lavrov showed support for the Arab League plan after vetoing it at the UN.\"British diplomats said William Hague, the foreign secretary, was planning to speak to Lavrov to hear a full account of his meeting with the Syrian leader.Hague also plans to talk to Sheikh Hamed bin Jassim al-Thani, Qatar's prime minister and the Arab League's chief hawk on Syria. The Arab League is to meet in Cairo on Saturday to review the crisis.Next moves include a first meeting of the new Friends of Syria grouping, which will work outside the UN to back Syria's opposition and seek a peaceful solution to the crisis. It looks unlikely, for now at least, to follow the example of the \"contact group\" set up to handle Libya last year, and formally recognise Assad's opponents as a legitimate government or openly supply them with weapons. Individual countries may do so in secret, however.John McCain, the US Republican senator, called on the US to look at that possibility now. \"We should start considering all options, including arming the opposition,\" he told reporters in Washington. \"The blood-letting has got to stop.\"European countries are planning new efforts to forge greater unity among the Syrian opposition, which is beset by rivalries and divisions. These risk bursting into the open if Assad \u2013 prodded by the Russians \u2013 does eventually make any substantive political concessions.Observers believe one possibility is the formation of a national unity government. \"That would muddy the waters,\" said commentator Malik al-Abdeh, who runs the opposition Barada TV. \"It could split the [Syrian National Council, or SNC] because some people will think they've backed the wrong horse. The [National Co-ordination Body] have always said that the solution is in Moscow, not in New York.\"George Sabra, a senior member of the SNC, signalled on Tuesday that the mood may be changing. \"We think Russia should provide a roadmap for \u2026 a dialogue,\" the Interfax news agency quoted him as saying. \"Then all the opposition groups can take corresponding steps. But no one will engage in dialogue just for dialogue's sake.\"", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Syrian crisis needs Arab solution, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-02-07T00:15:27Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Already grindingly destructive and violent, the 11-month long Syrian crisis has suddenly turned worse. The most searing evidence of that was felt on the streets of the insurgent stronghold of Homs on Monday, where Bashar al-Assad's forces kept up a battery of shelling and rocket attacks, causing many casualties amid horrific scenes. Meanwhile, government troops reportedly massed for an even bloodier assault on a city which has been in the forefront of anti-regime feeling. But the real trigger for the renewed fighting was less a shift in the internal military balance than a disastrous change on the international front.The pivotal event was Saturday's failed UN security council resolution. By vetoing the Arab League's Syria plan, even after the drafters had made substantive concessions, Russia and China stopped the international effort dead in its tracks, at least for the time being. This was a dismayingly reactionary decision by the two powers, lamented not just by predictable western nations but also by many in the region who saw the resolution as a chance to underscore the regime's isolation and boost UN credibility in the wake of the Arab spring. Russia's and China's vetoes did the precise opposite. Most lethally, they gave the Assad regime a green light to intensify its assault on its own people. The voting in New York launched the mortars against Homs. Responsibility for the renewed bloodshed therefore lies with Vladimir Putin and Hu Jintao as well as with President Assad himself.The immediate danger is that, under Russia's protection and armed with as many Russian guns as it wishes to buy and Moscow is willing to sell, a discredited and doomed (William Hague's word) regime will now kill even more Syrians in a frantic attempt to reconquer its own territory. But there are other foreseeable dangers too. One is that the UN's failure will be a catalyst for more internal opposition to the Assad regime not less, as some of those who have abandoned the regime, but who had hoped that international solidarity would push Assad out, now throw in their lot with the armed opposition. The flow of arms to the anti-government forces is also likely to increase not dwindle. Civil war would ramp up the pressure on Syria's neighbours, especially Turkey. Iran, with a massive stake in upholding the Damascus regime, will become more involved. And the west risks being gradually drawn into this new cold war whether the west, or Russia, likes it or not.Russia presumably sees this too. There is a case, of an extremely limited sort, to be made for some of Russia's obstructionism over Syria. Moscow has decided it was misled by the west over Libya. It is therefore determined not to help sanction any sort of repetition over Syria (even though the vetoed UN motion explicitly renounced regime change and the use of force). But the issue now is Syria not Libya. Does Russia really want to be the global protector of tyrants who turn their guns on their own people simply in order to get one back against the west after the overthrow of a worthless leader like Gaddafi? There are many dangers here for Russia, never mind the more immediate ones for Syrians. One of these is that Russia becomes the prisoner of its own alliance with Syria, forced to defend the indefensible for fear of losing prestige and influence once the diplomatic effort picks up again, as it must.Russia has put itself on the wrong side of the argument. But its foreign minister and its spy chief are both in Damascus today for talks with the Syrians. They have an opportunity to prove that the Syrian tail does not wag the Russian dog. Russia always protests that it has the interests of the Syrian people at heart. So\u00a0let it give a clear sign today that this is true. Let it make clear, before it is too late, that it refuses to be the Assad regime's protector against its own people. Let Russia make clear whether it is part of the problem or the solution. Russia must now show precisely how it proposes to broker a credible alternative to the Arab League plan that it has just done so much to destroy.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: Russia on the wrong side | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-13T00:16:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is easy to say what the past three months of mass protests against Vladimir Putin were not. They were not a Russian replay of the Arab spring. Nor were they a northern version of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution. Nor, as it turned out, was the outrage triggered by rigged parliamentary elections in December a truly national phenomenon. Moscow was the only region in Russia where Mr Putin did not get a majority.It would be equally wrong, however, to dismiss the biggest wave of anti-Kremlin demonstrations in decades as nothing but a mirage, a bad dream from which last week's lachrymose Mr Putin has now swiftly recovered. The numbers who turned out a week later were a fraction of those who attended the protests in the lead-up to the presidential vote. But this does not mean that Mr Putin's blueprint for \"stability\" or for a perpetuation of the status quo has prevailed. The judgment on that has to await the next national crisis, another Kursk, or Beslan, or economic shock, to which a country run by a super wealthy elite on behalf of itself is uniquely vulnerable.The protest movement has left two indelible marks. It has proved that the democratic spirit in Russia \u2013 expressed in the yearning for political pluralism, the rule of law and an active civil society \u2013 did not come and go at the start of the 1990s. It lies dormant in Russia, biding its time. And the movement also showed that a new generation of Russians, generally young and untainted by the chaos and venality of the Boris Yeltsin era, was prepared to pick up the cudgels of reform. Mr Putin would therefore be foolish to think he has recaptured Russian hearts just because he got the numbers, a convincing 64% of the vote. He secured another term of office largely because of a series of negatives \u2013 because the opposition was not united, was not politically experienced, had not yet generated national leaders, and had no means to prove to the Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg that they were a viable alternative. Nor did they themselves want a revolution. Mr Putin must not confuse fear of chaos with positive support.Equally, the hard graft for the opposition is now just starting. Filling the streets was quite easy, but building awareness of civil society in places where it does not exist, or shaking \"la Russie profonde\" out of its lethargy is less glamorous work. If Mr Putin's vulnerability is not just personal, but a failure of the system he put in place, then the task for the unsanctioned opposition which operates beyond the control of the Kremlin is to behave differently from generations of leaders before them. It is to build constituencies from the bottom up. It would be a novelty for political leaders to represent their people, rather than themselves, but that is what has to start happening.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: hard graft starts here | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-05T22:00:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If anyone thinks the international opprobrium heaped on Russia and China for vetoing the UN resolution condemning Syria's violent repression of its people is unusual, they should cast their minds back to 13 July 2006. George Bush and Tony Blair spent the best part of the following 33 days dismissing calls for an end to Israel's bombardment of southern Lebanon in response to a cross-border raid by Hezbullah.On 3 August Sir Rodric Braithwaite, a former British ambassador to Moscow, wrote that Blair's premiership had descended into \"scandal and incoherence\". Nor were serving Foreign Office officials quick to leap to Blair's defence. The government's policy of resisting calls for a ceasefire was \"driven by the prime minister alone\", they said.Such a position is today occupied by Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister and next president who, on the day tens of thousands of his countrymen turned out in temperatures of -18C to shout slogans like \"Russia without Putin\", ordered Russia's envoy to the UN to wield the veto.Russia's normally wooden public relations machine went into overdrive to explain the decision. Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov gave three reasons: the western drive for a stronger crackdown on Syria was preparation for a \"Libyan scenario\"; despite efforts to tone it down, the draft was unilateral, and did not set enough demands on anti-government armed groups; and it demanded the withdrawal of Assad's forces from towns and cities. \"This phrase, without being linked to a simultaneous termination of violence on the part of armed extremist groups, is absolutely provocative, as no president with self-respect, no matter how treated, will agree to surrender inhabited localities to armed extremists without resistance,\" Lavrov said.Insurrections in the Middle East have now turned the international tables full circle. Whereas western powers supported the status quo of Israel surrounded by Arab autocrats with whom it had made peace, and Russia had maintained diplomatic and defence links with Syria and Iran which backed the \"resistance\" movements to Israel, today Russia finds itself defending the autocratic status quo in the form of Assad.Putin, backed by the siloviki who run the military and have invested billions in Syria, may think his policy on Assad is good tactics. It stops an intervention that the west was never going to make. But it makes for terrible strategy.The veto sets Russia on the opposite side of the table from the Arab League; it lifts the international responsibility for failing to staunch the blood flowing in cities like Homs off Barack Obama's shoulders, and assumes that burden itself. And if defecting Syrian soldiers are to be called \"armed extremist groups\", who exactly are the militias currently running Libya, whom Russia belatedly recognised as a legitimate authority? If Islamists are by their nature extremist, and in Putin's eyes they are, what does that make the elected transitional authority in Tunisia?Lavrov and the foreign intelligence service chief Mikhail Fradkov will be in Damascus tomorrow to \"stabilise\" the situation in Syria and persuade Assad to implement \"democratic transformations\" which both Russians recognise as long overdue. In so doing, Russia will attempt to persuade the Arab League to extend the mission of Arab observers in Syria \u2013 a policy it has already abandoned. This lacks any sense of reality. Russia is simply following in Turkey's footsteps, months after Recep Tayyip Erdogan tried and failed to get Assad to institute political reforms before it was too late. It is now too late. Not for the first time Putin's political antennae are failing him. If he calls the white ribbons Russian protesters were wearing \"condoms\" and if he continues to believe that the extraordinary domestic protest he is facing has all been staged by the US state department, there is little chance of him seeing the turmoil in Syria differently. Putin's deadly enemy is the isolation in which he lives.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree ", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "United Nations", "Turkey", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Putin's veto sets Russia apart | David Hearst"},{"date": "2012-03-11T09:55:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Peter Preston, in today's Observer, catalogues the deaths of journalists in Russia in the dozen years since Vladimir Putin came to power. It makes for grim reading, but it merits repeating by as many journalists outside Russia as often as possible:\"In 2011, three journalists dead (including newspaper editor Khadzhimurad Kamalov, shot 14 times as he left his office). In 2010, two killed; in 2009, five more (including a young reporter from Novaya Gazeta, caught in a hail of bullets). Add four for 2008, one in 2007 and then 2006 as Anna Politkovskaya, the most famous victim of them all, is murdered.But she wouldn't forget Yevgeny Gerasimenko \u2013 found in his Saratov flat with a plastic bag pulled over his head and computer missing \u2013 and nor should we.Two Russian journalists died in 2005, and three in both 2004 and 2003; but 2002 was a wicked year, with eight lost (including Valery Ivanov, battling editor, shot in the head) and 2001 added another victim. Putin's reign of power in 2000 began with six dead reporters and editors: a grim portent, looking back, of bad things to come.\"Preston concludes: \"He is elected time and again. Yet a free press seems to mean pitifully little to him. You investigate? You report? You die, unavenged.\"Source: The Observer", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Anna Politkovskaya", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Journalistic death toll in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2012-03-05T00:22:11Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was never any question that Vladimir Putin would win a third term as president. An All-Russian Public Opinion Research Centre poll back in mid February put Putin on 53.5%, already an outright first round win and 42 points ahead of his nearest rival, the communist leader Gennady Zyuganov. So last night's initial exit poll figures giving him around 59%, did not look wildly out of line. The real issues are how he won, and where he lost.Hours before the first results, the opposition leader Alexei Navalny called the violations that had taken place yesterday irrefutable, and a Moscow Times photographer snapped a busload of hired hands moving from one polling station to another in the Kurkino district of northwest Moscow, evidence of the so-called voting carousel. The bussing in of Putin supporters to the capital, to boost his vote in a city that would have humiliated him had it been left to vote freely, was so extensive and so blatant that one member of the nationalist pro-Kremlin youth group Nashi admitted to our reporter that he had been transported to the city just to vote. Navalny's claims of widespread election fraud were soon followed by the communist party, who said that they could not consider the elections free or fair after the volume of complaints they had received.The battle that will unfold over the next 24 hours will be less over the fact that Putin got re-elected as president than it will be over the cheating that went on. The national result will radicalise his opponents less effectively than the local one. The gap between the official result in Moscow and St Petersburg, and what Muscovites and Peterburgers know to be true in their own city districts, is what will fuel the demonstrations due to take place today. Having already had one vote stolen from them in December, this will feel like a second slap in the face.Whether such tactics were wise for a president, who would have won anyway, is dubious indeed. Last night in his victory speech he appealed for unity, but mass demos and a strong police presence are no way to foster that. After the collapse of the popularity of his party, United Russia, in December, Putin needs to build a party and a new consensus. It will have to be a coalition if it is to address the core issues that brought so many of Russia's best and brightest out on to the streets.He has thus far made minimal concessions to the democratic awakening stirred in December. He had changed the laws on registering parties and candidates at future elections, but touched little else. Even his supporters do not know how Putin can avoid stagnation if he continues on the same path. But his opponents know one thing: the more Putin rubs his power into their faces, the more he risks provoking the explosion nobody in Russia wants.", "tags": ["Russian presidential election 2012", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's carousel arrives in town | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-02-26T21:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While this year promises hotly contested battles for the presidencies of France and the US, only in Russia does the outcome seem a foregone conclusion. But whereas we might be reasonably sure of the result, we should not assume that there is little at stake.For western eyes, the neat swap of titles from prime minister to president by Vladimir Putin \u2013 suitably circumventing Russia's rule that prevents a president from serving more than two terms consecutively \u2013 may appear to suggest business as usual in the closed world of Kremlin politics. But that was not the view taken by many Russians, insulted by the self-asserting proclamation of immovable presidential power stretching over the next decade and more. The poor, middle class and wealthy filled the streets, incensed by allegations of vote rigging and dirty tricks in the Duma elections in December. This movement, supported even by Russian elites, has exploded the long-held myth that the people want to stick with Putin just for the sake of stability.Putin responded to the demonstrators with mockery and chauvinism, saying he mistook the white ribbon they wore for the condoms of safe sex campaigners. But the authorities also responded \u2013 quietly \u2013 with reform, permitting the registration of new political parties for future Duma elections, and election rather than appointment of regional governors. These steps are capable of changing much in Russia, a catalyst, perhaps unintended, for a more fundamental transformation.They give hope that the seeds of modernity can be planted across the Russian Federation with the brightest and best coming forward as candidates for public office. Opposition figures capable of challenging existing power structures will grow \u2013 but the opposition will have to consolidate into two or three new parties, with the capacity and strength to challenge the status quo, avoiding the Kremlin trap of divide and rule among myriad rivals.But if that is the vision for the future, what prospects for the presidential elections next week? I hope we will see a large turnout, with my fellow citizens taking a long hard look at the alternative four \"candidates\", even if many would have preferred different names, who were not allowed to be there. The last time Putin stood for president he won resoundingly in the first round. If he is forced into a run-off this time, it would be an altogether different situation.A second round would confirm that the change we all seek is on its way: an evolutionary and not a revolutionary approach can be the way forward. We do not want the bloodshed on our streets seen elsewhere \u2013 but we do want things to be different. It must be the role of our generation to change the paradigm in Russia without a civil war.Abuse of power in Russian politics has been allowed to flourish too long. We need to modernise our economy, build a genuine civil society, end legal nihilism and stamp out corruption. We need to do this to build a better life for our children and our children's children, and for the country we love to prosper and to be engaged usefully in a changed and changing world.We have only to reflect on the Arab spring to recognise the transformation taking place in the compact between the rulers and the ruled. While there are certainly many differences between those countries and Russia, there are some fundamental similarities.From Cairo to Damascus, from Moscow to Magadan, people want to be treated with dignity and respect \u2013 and Russia is no exception!The Arab spring has shown us that nobody can hold back the power of modern technology to inform and to mobilise. Technology has empowered the people.And Russia's educated and growing middle classes should comprise a majority in just 10 years. They will continue to demand a real seat at the table in a system of democracy and pluralism, and they will not take no for an answer.Nobody expects this to happen overnight \u2013 but next Sunday's vote holds out the chance to end the would-be president's monopoly of power. We should not be afraid. By forcing a second round we will push our country down the path of positive change. Presidential power that previously answered to no one would have to start listening to the people it serves. The state that until now took the monopolistic presidential power for granted would be more wary of its hold and start moderating its behaviour. The politicians who gathered the opposition votes could become a force to be reckoned with, a voice for articulating the thoughts and views that have been ignored before. The establishment would have to start negotiating with the opposition and an evolutionary transition could meaningfully begin.I would also welcome a change of position from western countries. They should stop dancing to the whistle of the gas pipe. They need to speak loud and clear with one voice about real democratic reforms, recognising that the only way to secure our mutual interests in the long term is for governments to stop hiding behind the stability myth, legitimising a regime that is deceiving its own people \u2013 the people who are starting to wake up.And so I ask you to watch with interest the results of this year's election. In France and the US, the presidential vote is about choosing between differing political visions and outcomes. In my country the electoral calculus is a little simpler: choose Putin in the first round or in the second round. But do not be fooled! \"President\" Putin's return to the Kremlin, after either manipulating the first round or being forced into a second round, without doubt puts the world on notice that real political change in Russia is unavoidable. It will be welcomed.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news"], "title": "Real political change in Russia is unavoidable | Mikhail Khodorkovsky"},{"date": "2012-02-07T19:49:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has put itself at the centre of efforts to resolve the deepening Syrian crisis , calling for an \"Arab solution\" to the uprising against Bashar al-Assad's regime as more civilians were killed in a government assault on the city of Homs.Three days after Moscow infuriated western and Arab countries by vetoing a UN resolution on Syria, Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, flew to Damascus to hear Assad pledge a referendum on a new constitution and request that Arab League monitors \u2013 withdrawn last month \u2013 return to Syria.The visit came as the UN children's fund reported that at least 400 children had been killed in the past 11 months of violence in Syria, with a similar number detained and many reported to have been subjected to torture and sexual\u00a0abuse.\"As of the end of January, 400 children are dead and more than 400 have been detained,\" said Unicef spokeswoman Marixie Mercado. \"There are reports of children arbitrarily arrested, tortured and sexually abused while in detention.\"On Tuesday, six Arab Gulf states and Tunisia followed the US and several European countries in recalling their ambassadors, a deliberate signal of mounting international alarm at a crisis which many are already describing as a civil war.Assad promised to \"stop violence regardless of where it may come from\". But the regime's actions belied this statement. Syrian state media reported a determination to continue fighting \"armed terrorist gangs,\" amidst mounting evidence that most casualties in Homs are civilians. Hundreds are said to have died since shelling began on Friday. At least 95 people were killed there on Monday and nine more on Tuesday, the Syrian revolution general commission reported.\"We [Russia] confirmed our readiness to act for a rapid solution to the crisis based on the plan put forward by the Arab League,\" Lavrov said, though Syrian officials insisted that he was not referring to the current plan which calls for Assad to hand power to his deputy \u2013 interpreted by Moscow as tantamount to the \"regime change\" it objected to in Libya last year.Syria's state news agency, Sana, reported: \"Syria is determined to carry out national dialogue with the participation of representatives of the government, the opposition and independent figures.\"But neither Russian nor Syrian official reporting of the talks made any mention of freeing detainees or withdrawing troops and tanks from built-up areas, both conditions of an Arab League peace plan that had appeared to be defunct.Lavrov, with Russia's foreign intelligence chief in tow, flew to the Syrian capital after Moscow last Saturday vetoed a UN security council resolution that backed a \"Syrian-led political transition\" without calling on Assad to surrender power or even threatening sanctions.Syrian media highlighted the visit as demonstrating Moscow's support for Assad. State TV showed hundreds of people gathering to welcome Lavrov, waving Syrian, Russian and Hezbollah flags and holding up Russian flags made out of hundreds of white, blue and red balloons.Ad-Dounia, a private channel that outdoes even state media in its fervent loyalty to the regime, claimed that one million people had turned out to greet the Russians.Few details were available of what transpired behind closed doors, but diplomats and analysts said that while Assad's position looked like familiar \"window-dressing,\" Lavrov did offer some hope of diplomatic movement towards dialogue.One western official said: \"Assad still has his head in the sand if he thinks he can talk about reform without showing any results while he carries on the security crackdown. But it was encouraging that Lavrov showed support for the Arab League plan after vetoing it at the UN.\"British diplomats said William Hague, the foreign secretary, was planning to speak to Lavrov to hear a full account of his meeting with the Syrian leader.Hague also plans to talk to Sheikh Hamed bin Jassim al-Thani, Qatar's prime minister and the Arab League's chief hawk on Syria. The Arab League is to meet in Cairo on Saturday to review the crisis.Next moves include a first meeting of the new Friends of Syria grouping, which will work outside the UN to back Syria's opposition and seek a peaceful solution to the crisis. It looks unlikely, for now at least, to follow the example of the \"contact group\" set up to handle Libya last year, and formally recognise Assad's opponents as a legitimate government or openly supply them with weapons. Individual countries may do so in secret, however.John McCain, the US Republican senator, called on the US to look at that possibility now. \"We should start considering all options, including arming the opposition,\" he told reporters in Washington. \"The blood-letting has got to stop.\"European countries are planning new efforts to forge greater unity among the Syrian opposition, which is beset by rivalries and divisions. These risk bursting into the open if Assad \u2013 prodded by the Russians \u2013 does eventually make any substantive political concessions.Observers believe one possibility is the formation of a national unity government. \"That would muddy the waters,\" said commentator Malik al-Abdeh, who runs the opposition Barada TV. \"It could split the [Syrian National Council, or SNC] because some people will think they've backed the wrong horse. The [National Co-ordination Body] have always said that the solution is in Moscow, not in New York.\"George Sabra, a senior member of the SNC, signalled on Tuesday that the mood may be changing. \"We think Russia should provide a roadmap for \u2026 a dialogue,\" the Interfax news agency quoted him as saying. \"Then all the opposition groups can take corresponding steps. But no one will engage in dialogue just for dialogue's sake.\"", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Syrian crisis needs Arab solution, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-02-07T00:15:27Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Already grindingly destructive and violent, the 11-month long Syrian crisis has suddenly turned worse. The most searing evidence of that was felt on the streets of the insurgent stronghold of Homs on Monday, where Bashar al-Assad's forces kept up a battery of shelling and rocket attacks, causing many casualties amid horrific scenes. Meanwhile, government troops reportedly massed for an even bloodier assault on a city which has been in the forefront of anti-regime feeling. But the real trigger for the renewed fighting was less a shift in the internal military balance than a disastrous change on the international front.The pivotal event was Saturday's failed UN security council resolution. By vetoing the Arab League's Syria plan, even after the drafters had made substantive concessions, Russia and China stopped the international effort dead in its tracks, at least for the time being. This was a dismayingly reactionary decision by the two powers, lamented not just by predictable western nations but also by many in the region who saw the resolution as a chance to underscore the regime's isolation and boost UN credibility in the wake of the Arab spring. Russia's and China's vetoes did the precise opposite. Most lethally, they gave the Assad regime a green light to intensify its assault on its own people. The voting in New York launched the mortars against Homs. Responsibility for the renewed bloodshed therefore lies with Vladimir Putin and Hu Jintao as well as with President Assad himself.The immediate danger is that, under Russia's protection and armed with as many Russian guns as it wishes to buy and Moscow is willing to sell, a discredited and doomed (William Hague's word) regime will now kill even more Syrians in a frantic attempt to reconquer its own territory. But there are other foreseeable dangers too. One is that the UN's failure will be a catalyst for more internal opposition to the Assad regime not less, as some of those who have abandoned the regime, but who had hoped that international solidarity would push Assad out, now throw in their lot with the armed opposition. The flow of arms to the anti-government forces is also likely to increase not dwindle. Civil war would ramp up the pressure on Syria's neighbours, especially Turkey. Iran, with a massive stake in upholding the Damascus regime, will become more involved. And the west risks being gradually drawn into this new cold war whether the west, or Russia, likes it or not.Russia presumably sees this too. There is a case, of an extremely limited sort, to be made for some of Russia's obstructionism over Syria. Moscow has decided it was misled by the west over Libya. It is therefore determined not to help sanction any sort of repetition over Syria (even though the vetoed UN motion explicitly renounced regime change and the use of force). But the issue now is Syria not Libya. Does Russia really want to be the global protector of tyrants who turn their guns on their own people simply in order to get one back against the west after the overthrow of a worthless leader like Gaddafi? There are many dangers here for Russia, never mind the more immediate ones for Syrians. One of these is that Russia becomes the prisoner of its own alliance with Syria, forced to defend the indefensible for fear of losing prestige and influence once the diplomatic effort picks up again, as it must.Russia has put itself on the wrong side of the argument. But its foreign minister and its spy chief are both in Damascus today for talks with the Syrians. They have an opportunity to prove that the Syrian tail does not wag the Russian dog. Russia always protests that it has the interests of the Syrian people at heart. So\u00a0let it give a clear sign today that this is true. Let it make clear, before it is too late, that it refuses to be the Assad regime's protector against its own people. Let Russia make clear whether it is part of the problem or the solution. Russia must now show precisely how it proposes to broker a credible alternative to the Arab League plan that it has just done so much to destroy.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: Russia on the wrong side | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-01-14T00:05:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin. Testosterone Vesuvius. Behold him, his alert nipples and his Kalashnikov rifle trundling past in a tank. Or in a PR picture playing pully-ears with a tiger. We'd be saying \"Crikey Vladimir, it's a bloody tiger, run!\" And Pooty-Poot would be all, \"Dude, I'm Putin, this enormous land-beast totally respects my tough fiscal policy reforms and Leningrad judo king trophies. We're all good.\" Meanwhile a flurry of worried advisers holding boxes of Elastoplasts stare on. Putin is a real man, of this we can be sure, but details of his actions between his Rambo Dr Dolittle photocalls are less clear, which is why BBC2's Putin, Russia & The West (Thu, 9pm, BBC2) is rather fascinating.In part one, Taking Control, we watch Putin's first press interviews as prime minister and his swift move to acting president, then president, and see the footage of his frankly astonishing (by British standards anyway) public declawing of Russia's oligarchs. Several cocksure blokes in shiny suits swagger into a boardroom, the documentary freeze-framing to explain how each oligarch harvested their billions \u2013 oil, advertising et al. Following some perfunctory chit-chat, they're all informed that they're paying tax from now on, or being privatised and/or booted out of the country. \"This is very fair, yes, very fair,\" they chunter through tight lips, fists scrunched. It's impossible to envision Nick Clegg hauling Philip Green or Goldman Sachs and Vodafone to Downing Street one morning for a fiscal shafting. Poor Nick Clegg: I wouldn't trust him with a stubborn jam jar lid. We've been furnished with no photos of Clegg stripped down to underpants, nuzzling the nose of a wild stallion and his political positioning is all the poorer for it.Putin's voice during the oligarch dethroning procedure is eerily matter-of-fact, yet his eyes occasionally twinkle, hinting at a bubbling inner joy at his own plutonium-grade chutzpah. Soon Putin and George Bush are planning a weekend sleepover, Colin Powell and Condaleezza Rice both providing BBC2 with candid recollections of the moment a bright spark asks Bush, \"So President Bush, do you trust President Putin now?\" Bush, totally put on the spot, ventures: \"I looked the man in the eye. I found him to be very straightforward and trustworthy and we had a very good dialogue. I was able to get a sense of his soul.\" Powell winces at the memory: \"Well I wouldn't have gone so far \u2026 I was looking at Putin and thinking, 'Look there's a reason this man speaks fluent German \u2013 he was in the KGB.'\"Putin and Bush play a merry game of tit-for-tat, expelling each other's spies, while keeping the bonhomie vibrant enough for trips to The Nutcracker, as Bush tolerates Putin's moans that he's really rather concerned about Pakistan's al-Qaida network and he's sure they're planning to attack America. Bush brushes this worry off as minor.It's hard not to warm to Putin in this opening chapter, even if the sequences on Chechnya are distinctly chilling and one's heart lurches slightly for the plight of one feisty oil field-hogging oligarch who stands his ground against Vlad and has virtually everything aside from the socks he's standing in spirited away. \"You controlled politics for so long. You put me in charge. This is your own doing,\" Putin tells the oligarchs, biting his lip to stop smiling. He's the tiger who came to tea who ate all the buns then ate you too.", "tags": ["Television", "Television & radio", "Culture"], "title": "Grace Dent: Putin, Russia & The West"},{"date": "2012-06-12T21:27:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin does not like demonstrators and dissidents. He thinks of them as irresponsible and spoiled citizens at best, as tools of western plotters at worst. They do not show respect, they embarrass the Russian leadership in front of foreigners, they do not understand the problems of government, they lack national feeling. They are, in short, a bunch of clowns, idiots and traitors. He showed his views most clearly when he compared them to Kipling's \"Bandar-log\", the silly and scatterbrained monkey folk in The Jungle Book.When his critics tried to whip up feeling after the announcement that he and Dmitry Medvedev were going to swap jobs, Putin felt that this took away from the dignity that should have clothed the transfer.When they sought to mess up his inauguration as president, he felt this was an attempt to put a blot on what ought to have been a day of national rejoicing. It was predicted then that he would not let public protest become a periodic feature of his second presidency, and now he has moved to stamp it out, or at least to make it more difficult, costly, and perhaps even physically dangerous in the future.Last week the Duma passed a bill increasing the fines for taking part in unauthorised demonstrations to a level close to the average annual Russian salary. This week the security forces showed that even where permission to demonstrate has been obtained, the state will still intimidate and obstruct.On Monday squads of masked men burst into the homes of prominent opposition figures involved in preparations for a march and rally in Moscow, on the pretext that they were investigating incidents that took place during the inauguration protests in May. Dressing up its police as bank robbers or commandos is a part of the dismal macho style that characterises Putin's Russia. Why it is appropriate attire, for example, when entering the apartment of Ksenia Sobchak, a young female television presenter who has become one of the opposition's stars, has naturally not been explained. On Tuesday morning some of the leaders were called in again for questioning before being released and allowed to take part in the march and rally. The march itself was heavily policed and fenced off, and the coverage of a TV station sympathetic to the protesters was disrupted by a hacking attack.Putin's problem is that he faces a generation that was not alive under Soviet rule. Unlike their elders, they do not fear the state, nor do they feel the nostalgia for Soviet days that Putin exploits. He clearly wants them to feel a bit more fear and show a bit more respect. Not that much more: the opposition's comparisons with Stalin's roundups in 1937 are inappropriate. But once you start fiddling with the fear meter, who knows where it might end?", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Protest", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Putin's Russia: the fear meter | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-12T21:27:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin does not like demonstrators and dissidents. He thinks of them as irresponsible and spoiled citizens at best, as tools of western plotters at worst. They do not show respect, they embarrass the Russian leadership in front of foreigners, they do not understand the problems of government, they lack national feeling. They are, in short, a bunch of clowns, idiots and traitors. He showed his views most clearly when he compared them to Kipling's \"Bandar-log\", the silly and scatterbrained monkey folk in The Jungle Book.When his critics tried to whip up feeling after the announcement that he and Dmitry Medvedev were going to swap jobs, Putin felt that this took away from the dignity that should have clothed the transfer.When they sought to mess up his inauguration as president, he felt this was an attempt to put a blot on what ought to have been a day of national rejoicing. It was predicted then that he would not let public protest become a periodic feature of his second presidency, and now he has moved to stamp it out, or at least to make it more difficult, costly, and perhaps even physically dangerous in the future.Last week the Duma passed a bill increasing the fines for taking part in unauthorised demonstrations to a level close to the average annual Russian salary. This week the security forces showed that even where permission to demonstrate has been obtained, the state will still intimidate and obstruct.On Monday squads of masked men burst into the homes of prominent opposition figures involved in preparations for a march and rally in Moscow, on the pretext that they were investigating incidents that took place during the inauguration protests in May. Dressing up its police as bank robbers or commandos is a part of the dismal macho style that characterises Putin's Russia. Why it is appropriate attire, for example, when entering the apartment of Ksenia Sobchak, a young female television presenter who has become one of the opposition's stars, has naturally not been explained. On Tuesday morning some of the leaders were called in again for questioning before being released and allowed to take part in the march and rally. The march itself was heavily policed and fenced off, and the coverage of a TV station sympathetic to the protesters was disrupted by a hacking attack.Putin's problem is that he faces a generation that was not alive under Soviet rule. Unlike their elders, they do not fear the state, nor do they feel the nostalgia for Soviet days that Putin exploits. He clearly wants them to feel a bit more fear and show a bit more respect. Not that much more: the opposition's comparisons with Stalin's roundups in 1937 are inappropriate. But once you start fiddling with the fear meter, who knows where it might end?", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Protest", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Putin's Russia: the fear meter | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-28T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's support for Sunday night's UN security council statement condemning the Houla killings is the first positive news to come out of the Syrian crisis for months. It opens up the possibility, hitherto remote, that Washington and Moscow may find common cause in easing out Bashar al-Assad and defusing the rebellion against the Damascus regime.Russian spokesmen moved quickly on Monday to suggest events in Houla, where the UN says 116 civilians including dozens of children died in a bombardment by government forces last Friday, were \"murky\", that regime opponents carried much of the blame for the carnage, and that Russia's opposition to regime change remained steadfast.But there was no escaping the fact that the unanimous UN statement represented a breach in the diplomatic defences Moscow has erected around the Syrian regime. And it can be assumed with some certainty, given its importance, that Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, will have taken the decision himself.Even as the Syrian death toll rose above 10,000, on UN figures, and Kofi Annan's peace mission floundered, Russia continued to peddle the regime line that terrorists and religious extremists were responsible for provoking the violence. Now, by agreeing with the US and Britain that Assad is in violation of international law through his resort to \"outrageous use of force\", Moscow has taken a both substantive and symbolic step towards backing the Syrian leader's dethronement.Russia has been under intense diplomatic pressure to shift position, pressure that has begun to damage its wider interests in the Middle East, in relation to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states (all opposed to Assad), and bilaterally with key European powers and the US. But this is in itself does not explain Moscow's tentative lurch towards consensus.A more likely explanation is the return to the foreign policy helm of Putin, reinstalled this month as Russia's president. Putin is no dove, no cuddly peacemaker, as he has demonstrated repeatedly in conflict zones from Chechnya to Georgia. His approach is more that of a hard-nosed, unsentimental calculator of national advantage.The most important item on Putin's international agenda is not Syria, or any of the other Arab spring uprisings, for that matter. It is his meeting next month with Barack Obama. Putin deliberately snubbed the G8 summit hosted by the US president last week in Maryland. He made Obama wait several days before agreeing to accept his telephoned congratulations on his return to the presidency.All this is familiar Putin-style oneupmanship. In theory, it gives him a psychological advantage when the two men meet. So what does Putin want?Putin wants guarantees about US-led missile defence plans in Europe and Asia, which Russia characterises as deeply threatening to its security. Putin wants acceptance of the Caucasus status quo following the Russian-backed secession of Georgian territories in 2008. Putin wants a fruitful Russian membership of the World Trade Organisation. Putin wants an end to US criticism of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and civil rights deficit. The list goes on.Crucially, also, Russia wants a peaceful resolution of the looming crisis over Iran's nuclear programme. When Putin meets Obama, he will be looking for assurances that the US will block any Israeli military action against Iranian nuclear facilities, and will not take part in any such action itself.For the Kremlin, a war along its southern, central Asian flank would be far more deeply destabilising, politically and economically, than any amount of turmoil in Syria.Obama wants a lot from Putin, too, including co-operation on producing a successful, negotiated conclusion to the Iranian saga, plus help in dealing with common headaches such as North Korea. So there are plenty of indirect incentives for both sides for an accommodation on Syria.In preparation for their bilateral summit, Thomas Donilon, Obama's national security adviser, discussed Syria with Putin in Moscow three weeks ago, according to the New York Times. When Obama raised Assad's future with the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, at the G8 meeting, Medvedev appeared receptive, American officials said.Under the nascent deal, Russia would agree to the removal of Assad and his replacement by a less controversial government figure, following the example of the transition in Yemen. The regime would remain largely intact, and so too would Russia's Syrian sphere of interest, including its commercial relationships and its naval base.For his part, under such a scenario, Obama would be able to claim that the Syrian boil had been lanced without resort to military intervention (which Russia strongly opposes).Any such outcome would be hard for the democratic Syrian opposition to swallow and would fall far short of the regime-changing revolution many are seeking. It also implies an amnesty for Assad and his henchmen, and leaves open the question where the Syrian president might go if he were forced into exile.So it is all very tentative, to say the least. As of now, the only deal on the table remains the UN-backed but deeply battered Annan plan, a point emphasised on Monday in Moscow by William Hague, the British foreign secretary, who called it Syria's \"last hope\".The six-point plan calls for a ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and troops from population centres, humanitarian assistance, release of prisoners and free movement and access for journalists.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, accompanying Hague, did not rule out Assad's departure but said regime change in Damascus was \"not the most important thing\". Arab League leaders have dropped their earlier demand that Assad resign.But this remains the strongly held position of the American and EU governments \u2013 and notwithstanding Annan's meeting in Damascus with Assad on Tuesday, it is very hard to see any plausible end-scenario in the Syrian crisis that leaves Assad in power.If he is ultimately forced out as the result of some sort of US-Russian backroom deal, it will be the kind of result that has become typical of Obama's style. Unlike George Bush, Obama does not do conventional wars in other people's countries. He does special forces, drone strikes, covert ops, bribes and assassinations. And deals. If he can pull this off in Syria, it will be a very American coup.", "tags": ["Russia", "Syria", "US news", "Barack Obama", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: why Russia changed tack"},{"date": "2012-06-12T21:27:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin does not like demonstrators and dissidents. He thinks of them as irresponsible and spoiled citizens at best, as tools of western plotters at worst. They do not show respect, they embarrass the Russian leadership in front of foreigners, they do not understand the problems of government, they lack national feeling. They are, in short, a bunch of clowns, idiots and traitors. He showed his views most clearly when he compared them to Kipling's \"Bandar-log\", the silly and scatterbrained monkey folk in The Jungle Book.When his critics tried to whip up feeling after the announcement that he and Dmitry Medvedev were going to swap jobs, Putin felt that this took away from the dignity that should have clothed the transfer.When they sought to mess up his inauguration as president, he felt this was an attempt to put a blot on what ought to have been a day of national rejoicing. It was predicted then that he would not let public protest become a periodic feature of his second presidency, and now he has moved to stamp it out, or at least to make it more difficult, costly, and perhaps even physically dangerous in the future.Last week the Duma passed a bill increasing the fines for taking part in unauthorised demonstrations to a level close to the average annual Russian salary. This week the security forces showed that even where permission to demonstrate has been obtained, the state will still intimidate and obstruct.On Monday squads of masked men burst into the homes of prominent opposition figures involved in preparations for a march and rally in Moscow, on the pretext that they were investigating incidents that took place during the inauguration protests in May. Dressing up its police as bank robbers or commandos is a part of the dismal macho style that characterises Putin's Russia. Why it is appropriate attire, for example, when entering the apartment of Ksenia Sobchak, a young female television presenter who has become one of the opposition's stars, has naturally not been explained. On Tuesday morning some of the leaders were called in again for questioning before being released and allowed to take part in the march and rally. The march itself was heavily policed and fenced off, and the coverage of a TV station sympathetic to the protesters was disrupted by a hacking attack.Putin's problem is that he faces a generation that was not alive under Soviet rule. Unlike their elders, they do not fear the state, nor do they feel the nostalgia for Soviet days that Putin exploits. He clearly wants them to feel a bit more fear and show a bit more respect. Not that much more: the opposition's comparisons with Stalin's roundups in 1937 are inappropriate. But once you start fiddling with the fear meter, who knows where it might end?", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Protest", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Putin's Russia: the fear meter | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-28T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's support for Sunday night's UN security council statement condemning the Houla killings is the first positive news to come out of the Syrian crisis for months. It opens up the possibility, hitherto remote, that Washington and Moscow may find common cause in easing out Bashar al-Assad and defusing the rebellion against the Damascus regime.Russian spokesmen moved quickly on Monday to suggest events in Houla, where the UN says 116 civilians including dozens of children died in a bombardment by government forces last Friday, were \"murky\", that regime opponents carried much of the blame for the carnage, and that Russia's opposition to regime change remained steadfast.But there was no escaping the fact that the unanimous UN statement represented a breach in the diplomatic defences Moscow has erected around the Syrian regime. And it can be assumed with some certainty, given its importance, that Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, will have taken the decision himself.Even as the Syrian death toll rose above 10,000, on UN figures, and Kofi Annan's peace mission floundered, Russia continued to peddle the regime line that terrorists and religious extremists were responsible for provoking the violence. Now, by agreeing with the US and Britain that Assad is in violation of international law through his resort to \"outrageous use of force\", Moscow has taken a both substantive and symbolic step towards backing the Syrian leader's dethronement.Russia has been under intense diplomatic pressure to shift position, pressure that has begun to damage its wider interests in the Middle East, in relation to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states (all opposed to Assad), and bilaterally with key European powers and the US. But this is in itself does not explain Moscow's tentative lurch towards consensus.A more likely explanation is the return to the foreign policy helm of Putin, reinstalled this month as Russia's president. Putin is no dove, no cuddly peacemaker, as he has demonstrated repeatedly in conflict zones from Chechnya to Georgia. His approach is more that of a hard-nosed, unsentimental calculator of national advantage.The most important item on Putin's international agenda is not Syria, or any of the other Arab spring uprisings, for that matter. It is his meeting next month with Barack Obama. Putin deliberately snubbed the G8 summit hosted by the US president last week in Maryland. He made Obama wait several days before agreeing to accept his telephoned congratulations on his return to the presidency.All this is familiar Putin-style oneupmanship. In theory, it gives him a psychological advantage when the two men meet. So what does Putin want?Putin wants guarantees about US-led missile defence plans in Europe and Asia, which Russia characterises as deeply threatening to its security. Putin wants acceptance of the Caucasus status quo following the Russian-backed secession of Georgian territories in 2008. Putin wants a fruitful Russian membership of the World Trade Organisation. Putin wants an end to US criticism of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and civil rights deficit. The list goes on.Crucially, also, Russia wants a peaceful resolution of the looming crisis over Iran's nuclear programme. When Putin meets Obama, he will be looking for assurances that the US will block any Israeli military action against Iranian nuclear facilities, and will not take part in any such action itself.For the Kremlin, a war along its southern, central Asian flank would be far more deeply destabilising, politically and economically, than any amount of turmoil in Syria.Obama wants a lot from Putin, too, including co-operation on producing a successful, negotiated conclusion to the Iranian saga, plus help in dealing with common headaches such as North Korea. So there are plenty of indirect incentives for both sides for an accommodation on Syria.In preparation for their bilateral summit, Thomas Donilon, Obama's national security adviser, discussed Syria with Putin in Moscow three weeks ago, according to the New York Times. When Obama raised Assad's future with the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, at the G8 meeting, Medvedev appeared receptive, American officials said.Under the nascent deal, Russia would agree to the removal of Assad and his replacement by a less controversial government figure, following the example of the transition in Yemen. The regime would remain largely intact, and so too would Russia's Syrian sphere of interest, including its commercial relationships and its naval base.For his part, under such a scenario, Obama would be able to claim that the Syrian boil had been lanced without resort to military intervention (which Russia strongly opposes).Any such outcome would be hard for the democratic Syrian opposition to swallow and would fall far short of the regime-changing revolution many are seeking. It also implies an amnesty for Assad and his henchmen, and leaves open the question where the Syrian president might go if he were forced into exile.So it is all very tentative, to say the least. As of now, the only deal on the table remains the UN-backed but deeply battered Annan plan, a point emphasised on Monday in Moscow by William Hague, the British foreign secretary, who called it Syria's \"last hope\".The six-point plan calls for a ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and troops from population centres, humanitarian assistance, release of prisoners and free movement and access for journalists.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, accompanying Hague, did not rule out Assad's departure but said regime change in Damascus was \"not the most important thing\". Arab League leaders have dropped their earlier demand that Assad resign.But this remains the strongly held position of the American and EU governments \u2013 and notwithstanding Annan's meeting in Damascus with Assad on Tuesday, it is very hard to see any plausible end-scenario in the Syrian crisis that leaves Assad in power.If he is ultimately forced out as the result of some sort of US-Russian backroom deal, it will be the kind of result that has become typical of Obama's style. Unlike George Bush, Obama does not do conventional wars in other people's countries. He does special forces, drone strikes, covert ops, bribes and assassinations. And deals. If he can pull this off in Syria, it will be a very American coup.", "tags": ["Russia", "Syria", "US news", "Barack Obama", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: why Russia changed tack"},{"date": "2012-06-09T23:03:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The failure of the west to utter a threat that might limit the slaughter in Syria is made flesh in the pitiful figure of Michael McFaul, the American ambassador to Moscow. Pitiful, but also ridiculous, because McFaul is a diplomatic Malvolio: so desperate to please that he never guesses that everyone is laughing at him.His actions are of a liberal, if of the guilt-ridden variety. Their effects are anything but liberal. From the best of intentions, he is ending with the worst of outcomes. In this, he is a true representative of the Obama administration.You will remember that in the 2008 presidential election, the Democrats argued that George Bush was a certain cowboy and probable war criminal \u2013 a \"stupid white man\" to use the words that Michael Moore might better have directed at himself. When Obama came to power, he would \"engage\" with Putin's Russia, \"reach out\" to the ayatollahs' Iran and \"reset\" American foreign policy. Liberal America (and Europe) thought that \"the duty to repent forbids the western bloc, which is eternally guilty, to judge or combat other systems, other states, other religions\", as the French philosopher Pascal Bruckner said in The Tyranny of Guilt, his dissection of western masochism. It hoped that once the west repented and replaced a stupid white man with a smart black man it would remove the \"root cause\" of anti-western hostility. There would be no need to judge or combat our enemies. Indeed, our enemies would reveal themselves to be no enemies at all but an unjustly demonised \"other\", the victims of our paranoid fears and racist stereotypes.The failure of western diplomacy in Syria has been a bloody destroyer of illusions. The US, Britain, France, Turkey and the Arab League have acquiesced to a Russian veto. While they have agonised over the morality and practicality of \"liberal intervention\", the dictatorships have been practising \"illiberal intervention\" in a modern echo of the Spanish Civil War.Assad's crimes have not stopped Putin supplying his client with arms. After Ba'athist forces massacred at least 108 people near Houla, Putin's foreign minister insisted that \"both sides obviously had a hand in the deaths of innocent people\". After the massacre in Mazraat al-Qubair, Russia said it wanted Iran involved in any peacemaking process. This was too much even for Hillary Clinton, a stateswoman whose tolerance had appeared to be infinite. Even she knew that Iran's revolutionary guards are engaged in an illiberal intervention of their own on the side of the ayatollahs' allies in the Allawite minority. As Michael Weiss, Syria expert at the Henry Jackson Society, said: \"Asking Russia and Iran to help find peace is like asking a rapist to lead a Reclaim the Night rally.\"The \"progressives\" of the last decade did not understand that dictatorships are rarely just a rational reaction to western crimes. They have their own reasons, which do not cease to motivate them once a liberal is in the White House. Autocrats do not think that they are thieves and megalomaniacs. It goes against human nature for criminals to admit what they are. They dignify their will for power by seeing themselves as the only people who can maintain order and hold their countries together.To their mind, therefore, opponents must be traitors not only to the ruling family or clique, but to the nation. Democracy and human rights are not competing ideologies or the legitimate demands of honourable opponents, but the subversive doctrines of the imperialist west that dictatorships must unite to oppose. One of the least noticed features of the modern world is how the common interest of dictators has collapsed differences between ideologies. Look closely and you see a trade unionism of the authoritarian; a tyrannous ecumenism. On paper, crony-capitalist Russia, communist Cuba, Ba'athist Syria and Islamist Iran have nothing in common. But they will always form a united front against liberalism.Michael McFaul is not an idiot, or at least not obviously so. A distinguished academic, he helped organise the reset of Obama's Russian policy. He shared the administration's assumptions that once the Kremlin realised that reasonable men and women were in charge in Washington, it would cooperate.For all his scholarship, McFaul did not understand the dictatorial mind. He arrived in Russia in January when the opposition movement against the kleptocracy was growing. Putin, like Assad, had to blame dissent on foreigners and convince his supporters they were defending the motherland from the plots of alien enemies rather than the legitimate grievances of subjugated Russians. McFaul was the nearest target to hand, so the state media hit him. Flunkey journalists accused him of being the puppet master behind the protests. When he met dissidents, state broadcasters, who clearly knew his schedule, trailed him. Putin supporters posted videos comparing him to a paedophile.McFaul, who cared so much, who was trying so hard, wailed to Julia Ioffe of Foreign Affairs in February: \"What I did not anticipate, honestly, was the degree, the volume, the relentless anti-Americanism. That is odd for us. Because we have spent three years trying to build a different relationship with this country. I mean, I'm genuinely confused by it.\" According to Ioffe, a \"note of real hurt\" rang in his normally chipper voice. Nevertheless, he overcame his pain. By last week, McFaul was as much a Uriah Heap as a Malvolio as he humbly accepted the abuse the Kremlin directed at him.In a breach of all protocols covering the treatment of ambassadors, the Russian foreign ministry lambasted him on Twitter for propagating \"blatant falsehoods\" at a presentation in Moscow to academics. What made the diplomatic incident pathetic was that although McFaul had made mild and true criticisms in his speech, he filled most of it with praise. As he said in his reply to the Kremlin on Twitter, he had \"highlighted over 20 positive results of 'reset'\".Even while the Russians traduced him, McFaul did not understand that the \"reset\" had been on the western side only. For Putin, nothing had changed. McFaul concluded by tweeting that Russia had launched a Twitter war against him. Never mind, harsh words were better than armed conflict. \"That's the new world \u2013 followers instead of nukes,\" he said. \"Better.\"It is not \"better\" in Syria, whose largely defenceless population is suffering from more than nasty tweets. The Russian and Iranians understand that the battle for Syria is a battle they must win for their sakes as much as Assad's. The democracies are too blinded by the failures of the Bush years to see it. Until they press the reset button, there will be no end to the killing.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Bashar al-Assad", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Russia is playing western democrats for dupes | Nick Cohen"},{"date": "2012-06-12T21:27:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin does not like demonstrators and dissidents. He thinks of them as irresponsible and spoiled citizens at best, as tools of western plotters at worst. They do not show respect, they embarrass the Russian leadership in front of foreigners, they do not understand the problems of government, they lack national feeling. They are, in short, a bunch of clowns, idiots and traitors. He showed his views most clearly when he compared them to Kipling's \"Bandar-log\", the silly and scatterbrained monkey folk in The Jungle Book.When his critics tried to whip up feeling after the announcement that he and Dmitry Medvedev were going to swap jobs, Putin felt that this took away from the dignity that should have clothed the transfer.When they sought to mess up his inauguration as president, he felt this was an attempt to put a blot on what ought to have been a day of national rejoicing. It was predicted then that he would not let public protest become a periodic feature of his second presidency, and now he has moved to stamp it out, or at least to make it more difficult, costly, and perhaps even physically dangerous in the future.Last week the Duma passed a bill increasing the fines for taking part in unauthorised demonstrations to a level close to the average annual Russian salary. This week the security forces showed that even where permission to demonstrate has been obtained, the state will still intimidate and obstruct.On Monday squads of masked men burst into the homes of prominent opposition figures involved in preparations for a march and rally in Moscow, on the pretext that they were investigating incidents that took place during the inauguration protests in May. Dressing up its police as bank robbers or commandos is a part of the dismal macho style that characterises Putin's Russia. Why it is appropriate attire, for example, when entering the apartment of Ksenia Sobchak, a young female television presenter who has become one of the opposition's stars, has naturally not been explained. On Tuesday morning some of the leaders were called in again for questioning before being released and allowed to take part in the march and rally. The march itself was heavily policed and fenced off, and the coverage of a TV station sympathetic to the protesters was disrupted by a hacking attack.Putin's problem is that he faces a generation that was not alive under Soviet rule. Unlike their elders, they do not fear the state, nor do they feel the nostalgia for Soviet days that Putin exploits. He clearly wants them to feel a bit more fear and show a bit more respect. Not that much more: the opposition's comparisons with Stalin's roundups in 1937 are inappropriate. But once you start fiddling with the fear meter, who knows where it might end?", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Protest", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Putin's Russia: the fear meter | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-28T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's support for Sunday night's UN security council statement condemning the Houla killings is the first positive news to come out of the Syrian crisis for months. It opens up the possibility, hitherto remote, that Washington and Moscow may find common cause in easing out Bashar al-Assad and defusing the rebellion against the Damascus regime.Russian spokesmen moved quickly on Monday to suggest events in Houla, where the UN says 116 civilians including dozens of children died in a bombardment by government forces last Friday, were \"murky\", that regime opponents carried much of the blame for the carnage, and that Russia's opposition to regime change remained steadfast.But there was no escaping the fact that the unanimous UN statement represented a breach in the diplomatic defences Moscow has erected around the Syrian regime. And it can be assumed with some certainty, given its importance, that Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, will have taken the decision himself.Even as the Syrian death toll rose above 10,000, on UN figures, and Kofi Annan's peace mission floundered, Russia continued to peddle the regime line that terrorists and religious extremists were responsible for provoking the violence. Now, by agreeing with the US and Britain that Assad is in violation of international law through his resort to \"outrageous use of force\", Moscow has taken a both substantive and symbolic step towards backing the Syrian leader's dethronement.Russia has been under intense diplomatic pressure to shift position, pressure that has begun to damage its wider interests in the Middle East, in relation to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states (all opposed to Assad), and bilaterally with key European powers and the US. But this is in itself does not explain Moscow's tentative lurch towards consensus.A more likely explanation is the return to the foreign policy helm of Putin, reinstalled this month as Russia's president. Putin is no dove, no cuddly peacemaker, as he has demonstrated repeatedly in conflict zones from Chechnya to Georgia. His approach is more that of a hard-nosed, unsentimental calculator of national advantage.The most important item on Putin's international agenda is not Syria, or any of the other Arab spring uprisings, for that matter. It is his meeting next month with Barack Obama. Putin deliberately snubbed the G8 summit hosted by the US president last week in Maryland. He made Obama wait several days before agreeing to accept his telephoned congratulations on his return to the presidency.All this is familiar Putin-style oneupmanship. In theory, it gives him a psychological advantage when the two men meet. So what does Putin want?Putin wants guarantees about US-led missile defence plans in Europe and Asia, which Russia characterises as deeply threatening to its security. Putin wants acceptance of the Caucasus status quo following the Russian-backed secession of Georgian territories in 2008. Putin wants a fruitful Russian membership of the World Trade Organisation. Putin wants an end to US criticism of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and civil rights deficit. The list goes on.Crucially, also, Russia wants a peaceful resolution of the looming crisis over Iran's nuclear programme. When Putin meets Obama, he will be looking for assurances that the US will block any Israeli military action against Iranian nuclear facilities, and will not take part in any such action itself.For the Kremlin, a war along its southern, central Asian flank would be far more deeply destabilising, politically and economically, than any amount of turmoil in Syria.Obama wants a lot from Putin, too, including co-operation on producing a successful, negotiated conclusion to the Iranian saga, plus help in dealing with common headaches such as North Korea. So there are plenty of indirect incentives for both sides for an accommodation on Syria.In preparation for their bilateral summit, Thomas Donilon, Obama's national security adviser, discussed Syria with Putin in Moscow three weeks ago, according to the New York Times. When Obama raised Assad's future with the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, at the G8 meeting, Medvedev appeared receptive, American officials said.Under the nascent deal, Russia would agree to the removal of Assad and his replacement by a less controversial government figure, following the example of the transition in Yemen. The regime would remain largely intact, and so too would Russia's Syrian sphere of interest, including its commercial relationships and its naval base.For his part, under such a scenario, Obama would be able to claim that the Syrian boil had been lanced without resort to military intervention (which Russia strongly opposes).Any such outcome would be hard for the democratic Syrian opposition to swallow and would fall far short of the regime-changing revolution many are seeking. It also implies an amnesty for Assad and his henchmen, and leaves open the question where the Syrian president might go if he were forced into exile.So it is all very tentative, to say the least. As of now, the only deal on the table remains the UN-backed but deeply battered Annan plan, a point emphasised on Monday in Moscow by William Hague, the British foreign secretary, who called it Syria's \"last hope\".The six-point plan calls for a ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and troops from population centres, humanitarian assistance, release of prisoners and free movement and access for journalists.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, accompanying Hague, did not rule out Assad's departure but said regime change in Damascus was \"not the most important thing\". Arab League leaders have dropped their earlier demand that Assad resign.But this remains the strongly held position of the American and EU governments \u2013 and notwithstanding Annan's meeting in Damascus with Assad on Tuesday, it is very hard to see any plausible end-scenario in the Syrian crisis that leaves Assad in power.If he is ultimately forced out as the result of some sort of US-Russian backroom deal, it will be the kind of result that has become typical of Obama's style. Unlike George Bush, Obama does not do conventional wars in other people's countries. He does special forces, drone strikes, covert ops, bribes and assassinations. And deals. If he can pull this off in Syria, it will be a very American coup.", "tags": ["Russia", "Syria", "US news", "Barack Obama", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: why Russia changed tack"},{"date": "2012-06-09T23:03:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The failure of the west to utter a threat that might limit the slaughter in Syria is made flesh in the pitiful figure of Michael McFaul, the American ambassador to Moscow. Pitiful, but also ridiculous, because McFaul is a diplomatic Malvolio: so desperate to please that he never guesses that everyone is laughing at him.His actions are of a liberal, if of the guilt-ridden variety. Their effects are anything but liberal. From the best of intentions, he is ending with the worst of outcomes. In this, he is a true representative of the Obama administration.You will remember that in the 2008 presidential election, the Democrats argued that George Bush was a certain cowboy and probable war criminal \u2013 a \"stupid white man\" to use the words that Michael Moore might better have directed at himself. When Obama came to power, he would \"engage\" with Putin's Russia, \"reach out\" to the ayatollahs' Iran and \"reset\" American foreign policy. Liberal America (and Europe) thought that \"the duty to repent forbids the western bloc, which is eternally guilty, to judge or combat other systems, other states, other religions\", as the French philosopher Pascal Bruckner said in The Tyranny of Guilt, his dissection of western masochism. It hoped that once the west repented and replaced a stupid white man with a smart black man it would remove the \"root cause\" of anti-western hostility. There would be no need to judge or combat our enemies. Indeed, our enemies would reveal themselves to be no enemies at all but an unjustly demonised \"other\", the victims of our paranoid fears and racist stereotypes.The failure of western diplomacy in Syria has been a bloody destroyer of illusions. The US, Britain, France, Turkey and the Arab League have acquiesced to a Russian veto. While they have agonised over the morality and practicality of \"liberal intervention\", the dictatorships have been practising \"illiberal intervention\" in a modern echo of the Spanish Civil War.Assad's crimes have not stopped Putin supplying his client with arms. After Ba'athist forces massacred at least 108 people near Houla, Putin's foreign minister insisted that \"both sides obviously had a hand in the deaths of innocent people\". After the massacre in Mazraat al-Qubair, Russia said it wanted Iran involved in any peacemaking process. This was too much even for Hillary Clinton, a stateswoman whose tolerance had appeared to be infinite. Even she knew that Iran's revolutionary guards are engaged in an illiberal intervention of their own on the side of the ayatollahs' allies in the Allawite minority. As Michael Weiss, Syria expert at the Henry Jackson Society, said: \"Asking Russia and Iran to help find peace is like asking a rapist to lead a Reclaim the Night rally.\"The \"progressives\" of the last decade did not understand that dictatorships are rarely just a rational reaction to western crimes. They have their own reasons, which do not cease to motivate them once a liberal is in the White House. Autocrats do not think that they are thieves and megalomaniacs. It goes against human nature for criminals to admit what they are. They dignify their will for power by seeing themselves as the only people who can maintain order and hold their countries together.To their mind, therefore, opponents must be traitors not only to the ruling family or clique, but to the nation. Democracy and human rights are not competing ideologies or the legitimate demands of honourable opponents, but the subversive doctrines of the imperialist west that dictatorships must unite to oppose. One of the least noticed features of the modern world is how the common interest of dictators has collapsed differences between ideologies. Look closely and you see a trade unionism of the authoritarian; a tyrannous ecumenism. On paper, crony-capitalist Russia, communist Cuba, Ba'athist Syria and Islamist Iran have nothing in common. But they will always form a united front against liberalism.Michael McFaul is not an idiot, or at least not obviously so. A distinguished academic, he helped organise the reset of Obama's Russian policy. He shared the administration's assumptions that once the Kremlin realised that reasonable men and women were in charge in Washington, it would cooperate.For all his scholarship, McFaul did not understand the dictatorial mind. He arrived in Russia in January when the opposition movement against the kleptocracy was growing. Putin, like Assad, had to blame dissent on foreigners and convince his supporters they were defending the motherland from the plots of alien enemies rather than the legitimate grievances of subjugated Russians. McFaul was the nearest target to hand, so the state media hit him. Flunkey journalists accused him of being the puppet master behind the protests. When he met dissidents, state broadcasters, who clearly knew his schedule, trailed him. Putin supporters posted videos comparing him to a paedophile.McFaul, who cared so much, who was trying so hard, wailed to Julia Ioffe of Foreign Affairs in February: \"What I did not anticipate, honestly, was the degree, the volume, the relentless anti-Americanism. That is odd for us. Because we have spent three years trying to build a different relationship with this country. I mean, I'm genuinely confused by it.\" According to Ioffe, a \"note of real hurt\" rang in his normally chipper voice. Nevertheless, he overcame his pain. By last week, McFaul was as much a Uriah Heap as a Malvolio as he humbly accepted the abuse the Kremlin directed at him.In a breach of all protocols covering the treatment of ambassadors, the Russian foreign ministry lambasted him on Twitter for propagating \"blatant falsehoods\" at a presentation in Moscow to academics. What made the diplomatic incident pathetic was that although McFaul had made mild and true criticisms in his speech, he filled most of it with praise. As he said in his reply to the Kremlin on Twitter, he had \"highlighted over 20 positive results of 'reset'\".Even while the Russians traduced him, McFaul did not understand that the \"reset\" had been on the western side only. For Putin, nothing had changed. McFaul concluded by tweeting that Russia had launched a Twitter war against him. Never mind, harsh words were better than armed conflict. \"That's the new world \u2013 followers instead of nukes,\" he said. \"Better.\"It is not \"better\" in Syria, whose largely defenceless population is suffering from more than nasty tweets. The Russian and Iranians understand that the battle for Syria is a battle they must win for their sakes as much as Assad's. The democracies are too blinded by the failures of the Bush years to see it. Until they press the reset button, there will be no end to the killing.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Bashar al-Assad", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Russia is playing western democrats for dupes | Nick Cohen"},{"date": "2012-06-28T12:55:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": " Russia will follow through with plans to deliver attack helicopters to Syria because it considers the country its friend, a senior official has said.\"Syria is our friend, and we fulfil all our obligations to our friends,\" Alexander Fomin, head of the federal service for military-technical co-operation, told RIA-Novosti. \"According to a 2008 contract, we repaired three Mi-25s and are ready to deliver them on time.\"Russia has come under fire for refusing to halt its co-operation with the regime of Bashar al-Assad, one of its last remaining allies in the Middle East.A Russian ship sailing under the Cura\u00e7ao flag attempted to deliver the three attack helicopters as well as air defence systems last month, but turned back as it rounded the coast of Scotland after its British insurers withdrew their coverage amid international criticism.The ship returned to port in Russia and was re-outfitted with a Russian flag. It would sail with a non-military escort, the ship's owner, Femco, said earlier this week.An unnamed \"military-diplomatic source\" told the Interfax news agency on Wednesday that Russia could deliver the helicopters by air. \"In any case, Russia must fulfil its obligations,\" the source said. \"However, everything will depend on whether we can withstand the pressure from the west.\"Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, has insisted that the weapons are defensive in nature and are not feeding the violence in Syria. He has said Russia is simply fulfilling its contracts, taking pains to assure the west that Russia's opposition to foreign intervention in Syria does not equate to support for Assad.Lavrov is due to meet Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, later on Thursday during her brief visit to St Petersburg. The two are due to attend a meeting in Geneva on the Syria crisis this weekend.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Arms trade", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Syria will receive attack helicopters from Russia, Kremlin confirms"},{"date": "2012-06-12T21:27:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin does not like demonstrators and dissidents. He thinks of them as irresponsible and spoiled citizens at best, as tools of western plotters at worst. They do not show respect, they embarrass the Russian leadership in front of foreigners, they do not understand the problems of government, they lack national feeling. They are, in short, a bunch of clowns, idiots and traitors. He showed his views most clearly when he compared them to Kipling's \"Bandar-log\", the silly and scatterbrained monkey folk in The Jungle Book.When his critics tried to whip up feeling after the announcement that he and Dmitry Medvedev were going to swap jobs, Putin felt that this took away from the dignity that should have clothed the transfer.When they sought to mess up his inauguration as president, he felt this was an attempt to put a blot on what ought to have been a day of national rejoicing. It was predicted then that he would not let public protest become a periodic feature of his second presidency, and now he has moved to stamp it out, or at least to make it more difficult, costly, and perhaps even physically dangerous in the future.Last week the Duma passed a bill increasing the fines for taking part in unauthorised demonstrations to a level close to the average annual Russian salary. This week the security forces showed that even where permission to demonstrate has been obtained, the state will still intimidate and obstruct.On Monday squads of masked men burst into the homes of prominent opposition figures involved in preparations for a march and rally in Moscow, on the pretext that they were investigating incidents that took place during the inauguration protests in May. Dressing up its police as bank robbers or commandos is a part of the dismal macho style that characterises Putin's Russia. Why it is appropriate attire, for example, when entering the apartment of Ksenia Sobchak, a young female television presenter who has become one of the opposition's stars, has naturally not been explained. On Tuesday morning some of the leaders were called in again for questioning before being released and allowed to take part in the march and rally. The march itself was heavily policed and fenced off, and the coverage of a TV station sympathetic to the protesters was disrupted by a hacking attack.Putin's problem is that he faces a generation that was not alive under Soviet rule. Unlike their elders, they do not fear the state, nor do they feel the nostalgia for Soviet days that Putin exploits. He clearly wants them to feel a bit more fear and show a bit more respect. Not that much more: the opposition's comparisons with Stalin's roundups in 1937 are inappropriate. But once you start fiddling with the fear meter, who knows where it might end?", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Protest", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Putin's Russia: the fear meter | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-28T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's support for Sunday night's UN security council statement condemning the Houla killings is the first positive news to come out of the Syrian crisis for months. It opens up the possibility, hitherto remote, that Washington and Moscow may find common cause in easing out Bashar al-Assad and defusing the rebellion against the Damascus regime.Russian spokesmen moved quickly on Monday to suggest events in Houla, where the UN says 116 civilians including dozens of children died in a bombardment by government forces last Friday, were \"murky\", that regime opponents carried much of the blame for the carnage, and that Russia's opposition to regime change remained steadfast.But there was no escaping the fact that the unanimous UN statement represented a breach in the diplomatic defences Moscow has erected around the Syrian regime. And it can be assumed with some certainty, given its importance, that Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, will have taken the decision himself.Even as the Syrian death toll rose above 10,000, on UN figures, and Kofi Annan's peace mission floundered, Russia continued to peddle the regime line that terrorists and religious extremists were responsible for provoking the violence. Now, by agreeing with the US and Britain that Assad is in violation of international law through his resort to \"outrageous use of force\", Moscow has taken a both substantive and symbolic step towards backing the Syrian leader's dethronement.Russia has been under intense diplomatic pressure to shift position, pressure that has begun to damage its wider interests in the Middle East, in relation to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states (all opposed to Assad), and bilaterally with key European powers and the US. But this is in itself does not explain Moscow's tentative lurch towards consensus.A more likely explanation is the return to the foreign policy helm of Putin, reinstalled this month as Russia's president. Putin is no dove, no cuddly peacemaker, as he has demonstrated repeatedly in conflict zones from Chechnya to Georgia. His approach is more that of a hard-nosed, unsentimental calculator of national advantage.The most important item on Putin's international agenda is not Syria, or any of the other Arab spring uprisings, for that matter. It is his meeting next month with Barack Obama. Putin deliberately snubbed the G8 summit hosted by the US president last week in Maryland. He made Obama wait several days before agreeing to accept his telephoned congratulations on his return to the presidency.All this is familiar Putin-style oneupmanship. In theory, it gives him a psychological advantage when the two men meet. So what does Putin want?Putin wants guarantees about US-led missile defence plans in Europe and Asia, which Russia characterises as deeply threatening to its security. Putin wants acceptance of the Caucasus status quo following the Russian-backed secession of Georgian territories in 2008. Putin wants a fruitful Russian membership of the World Trade Organisation. Putin wants an end to US criticism of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and civil rights deficit. The list goes on.Crucially, also, Russia wants a peaceful resolution of the looming crisis over Iran's nuclear programme. When Putin meets Obama, he will be looking for assurances that the US will block any Israeli military action against Iranian nuclear facilities, and will not take part in any such action itself.For the Kremlin, a war along its southern, central Asian flank would be far more deeply destabilising, politically and economically, than any amount of turmoil in Syria.Obama wants a lot from Putin, too, including co-operation on producing a successful, negotiated conclusion to the Iranian saga, plus help in dealing with common headaches such as North Korea. So there are plenty of indirect incentives for both sides for an accommodation on Syria.In preparation for their bilateral summit, Thomas Donilon, Obama's national security adviser, discussed Syria with Putin in Moscow three weeks ago, according to the New York Times. When Obama raised Assad's future with the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, at the G8 meeting, Medvedev appeared receptive, American officials said.Under the nascent deal, Russia would agree to the removal of Assad and his replacement by a less controversial government figure, following the example of the transition in Yemen. The regime would remain largely intact, and so too would Russia's Syrian sphere of interest, including its commercial relationships and its naval base.For his part, under such a scenario, Obama would be able to claim that the Syrian boil had been lanced without resort to military intervention (which Russia strongly opposes).Any such outcome would be hard for the democratic Syrian opposition to swallow and would fall far short of the regime-changing revolution many are seeking. It also implies an amnesty for Assad and his henchmen, and leaves open the question where the Syrian president might go if he were forced into exile.So it is all very tentative, to say the least. As of now, the only deal on the table remains the UN-backed but deeply battered Annan plan, a point emphasised on Monday in Moscow by William Hague, the British foreign secretary, who called it Syria's \"last hope\".The six-point plan calls for a ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and troops from population centres, humanitarian assistance, release of prisoners and free movement and access for journalists.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, accompanying Hague, did not rule out Assad's departure but said regime change in Damascus was \"not the most important thing\". Arab League leaders have dropped their earlier demand that Assad resign.But this remains the strongly held position of the American and EU governments \u2013 and notwithstanding Annan's meeting in Damascus with Assad on Tuesday, it is very hard to see any plausible end-scenario in the Syrian crisis that leaves Assad in power.If he is ultimately forced out as the result of some sort of US-Russian backroom deal, it will be the kind of result that has become typical of Obama's style. Unlike George Bush, Obama does not do conventional wars in other people's countries. He does special forces, drone strikes, covert ops, bribes and assassinations. And deals. If he can pull this off in Syria, it will be a very American coup.", "tags": ["Russia", "Syria", "US news", "Barack Obama", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: why Russia changed tack"},{"date": "2012-06-09T23:03:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The failure of the west to utter a threat that might limit the slaughter in Syria is made flesh in the pitiful figure of Michael McFaul, the American ambassador to Moscow. Pitiful, but also ridiculous, because McFaul is a diplomatic Malvolio: so desperate to please that he never guesses that everyone is laughing at him.His actions are of a liberal, if of the guilt-ridden variety. Their effects are anything but liberal. From the best of intentions, he is ending with the worst of outcomes. In this, he is a true representative of the Obama administration.You will remember that in the 2008 presidential election, the Democrats argued that George Bush was a certain cowboy and probable war criminal \u2013 a \"stupid white man\" to use the words that Michael Moore might better have directed at himself. When Obama came to power, he would \"engage\" with Putin's Russia, \"reach out\" to the ayatollahs' Iran and \"reset\" American foreign policy. Liberal America (and Europe) thought that \"the duty to repent forbids the western bloc, which is eternally guilty, to judge or combat other systems, other states, other religions\", as the French philosopher Pascal Bruckner said in The Tyranny of Guilt, his dissection of western masochism. It hoped that once the west repented and replaced a stupid white man with a smart black man it would remove the \"root cause\" of anti-western hostility. There would be no need to judge or combat our enemies. Indeed, our enemies would reveal themselves to be no enemies at all but an unjustly demonised \"other\", the victims of our paranoid fears and racist stereotypes.The failure of western diplomacy in Syria has been a bloody destroyer of illusions. The US, Britain, France, Turkey and the Arab League have acquiesced to a Russian veto. While they have agonised over the morality and practicality of \"liberal intervention\", the dictatorships have been practising \"illiberal intervention\" in a modern echo of the Spanish Civil War.Assad's crimes have not stopped Putin supplying his client with arms. After Ba'athist forces massacred at least 108 people near Houla, Putin's foreign minister insisted that \"both sides obviously had a hand in the deaths of innocent people\". After the massacre in Mazraat al-Qubair, Russia said it wanted Iran involved in any peacemaking process. This was too much even for Hillary Clinton, a stateswoman whose tolerance had appeared to be infinite. Even she knew that Iran's revolutionary guards are engaged in an illiberal intervention of their own on the side of the ayatollahs' allies in the Allawite minority. As Michael Weiss, Syria expert at the Henry Jackson Society, said: \"Asking Russia and Iran to help find peace is like asking a rapist to lead a Reclaim the Night rally.\"The \"progressives\" of the last decade did not understand that dictatorships are rarely just a rational reaction to western crimes. They have their own reasons, which do not cease to motivate them once a liberal is in the White House. Autocrats do not think that they are thieves and megalomaniacs. It goes against human nature for criminals to admit what they are. They dignify their will for power by seeing themselves as the only people who can maintain order and hold their countries together.To their mind, therefore, opponents must be traitors not only to the ruling family or clique, but to the nation. Democracy and human rights are not competing ideologies or the legitimate demands of honourable opponents, but the subversive doctrines of the imperialist west that dictatorships must unite to oppose. One of the least noticed features of the modern world is how the common interest of dictators has collapsed differences between ideologies. Look closely and you see a trade unionism of the authoritarian; a tyrannous ecumenism. On paper, crony-capitalist Russia, communist Cuba, Ba'athist Syria and Islamist Iran have nothing in common. But they will always form a united front against liberalism.Michael McFaul is not an idiot, or at least not obviously so. A distinguished academic, he helped organise the reset of Obama's Russian policy. He shared the administration's assumptions that once the Kremlin realised that reasonable men and women were in charge in Washington, it would cooperate.For all his scholarship, McFaul did not understand the dictatorial mind. He arrived in Russia in January when the opposition movement against the kleptocracy was growing. Putin, like Assad, had to blame dissent on foreigners and convince his supporters they were defending the motherland from the plots of alien enemies rather than the legitimate grievances of subjugated Russians. McFaul was the nearest target to hand, so the state media hit him. Flunkey journalists accused him of being the puppet master behind the protests. When he met dissidents, state broadcasters, who clearly knew his schedule, trailed him. Putin supporters posted videos comparing him to a paedophile.McFaul, who cared so much, who was trying so hard, wailed to Julia Ioffe of Foreign Affairs in February: \"What I did not anticipate, honestly, was the degree, the volume, the relentless anti-Americanism. That is odd for us. Because we have spent three years trying to build a different relationship with this country. I mean, I'm genuinely confused by it.\" According to Ioffe, a \"note of real hurt\" rang in his normally chipper voice. Nevertheless, he overcame his pain. By last week, McFaul was as much a Uriah Heap as a Malvolio as he humbly accepted the abuse the Kremlin directed at him.In a breach of all protocols covering the treatment of ambassadors, the Russian foreign ministry lambasted him on Twitter for propagating \"blatant falsehoods\" at a presentation in Moscow to academics. What made the diplomatic incident pathetic was that although McFaul had made mild and true criticisms in his speech, he filled most of it with praise. As he said in his reply to the Kremlin on Twitter, he had \"highlighted over 20 positive results of 'reset'\".Even while the Russians traduced him, McFaul did not understand that the \"reset\" had been on the western side only. For Putin, nothing had changed. McFaul concluded by tweeting that Russia had launched a Twitter war against him. Never mind, harsh words were better than armed conflict. \"That's the new world \u2013 followers instead of nukes,\" he said. \"Better.\"It is not \"better\" in Syria, whose largely defenceless population is suffering from more than nasty tweets. The Russian and Iranians understand that the battle for Syria is a battle they must win for their sakes as much as Assad's. The democracies are too blinded by the failures of the Bush years to see it. Until they press the reset button, there will be no end to the killing.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Bashar al-Assad", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Russia is playing western democrats for dupes | Nick Cohen"},{"date": "2012-06-28T12:55:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": " Russia will follow through with plans to deliver attack helicopters to Syria because it considers the country its friend, a senior official has said.\"Syria is our friend, and we fulfil all our obligations to our friends,\" Alexander Fomin, head of the federal service for military-technical co-operation, told RIA-Novosti. \"According to a 2008 contract, we repaired three Mi-25s and are ready to deliver them on time.\"Russia has come under fire for refusing to halt its co-operation with the regime of Bashar al-Assad, one of its last remaining allies in the Middle East.A Russian ship sailing under the Cura\u00e7ao flag attempted to deliver the three attack helicopters as well as air defence systems last month, but turned back as it rounded the coast of Scotland after its British insurers withdrew their coverage amid international criticism.The ship returned to port in Russia and was re-outfitted with a Russian flag. It would sail with a non-military escort, the ship's owner, Femco, said earlier this week.An unnamed \"military-diplomatic source\" told the Interfax news agency on Wednesday that Russia could deliver the helicopters by air. \"In any case, Russia must fulfil its obligations,\" the source said. \"However, everything will depend on whether we can withstand the pressure from the west.\"Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, has insisted that the weapons are defensive in nature and are not feeding the violence in Syria. He has said Russia is simply fulfilling its contracts, taking pains to assure the west that Russia's opposition to foreign intervention in Syria does not equate to support for Assad.Lavrov is due to meet Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, later on Thursday during her brief visit to St Petersburg. The two are due to attend a meeting in Geneva on the Syria crisis this weekend.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Arms trade", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Syria will receive attack helicopters from Russia, Kremlin confirms"},{"date": "2012-06-27T16:24:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has condemned a US Senate committee's approval of a bill that would ban officials accused of human rights abuses from entering the United States.On Tuesday, the Senate's foreign relations committee unanimously passed a bill named after Sergei Magnitsky, a young lawyer who died in jail in 2009 after uncovering an alleged corruption scheme involving Russian tax officials and police. His arrest and subsequent death are widely seen as symbolising the absence of rule of law inside Russia.Sergei Ryabkov, Russia's deputy foreign minister, called the committee's decision \"counterproductive\". Russia's response would be \"harsh\" and \"not necessarily symmetrical\", he told state television on Wednesday.The bill, put forward by Senator Benjamin Cardin, would ban officials allegedly involved in Magnitsky's death from entering the US, and impose restrictions on their financial activities inside the country.Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, warned at the G8 summit in Mexico earlier this month that Russia would ban US officials from entering Russia if the Magnitsky bill was passed.The US state department has already quietly banned 60 officials linked to the Magnitsky case \u2013 a move seen as an attempt to avoid the public row that would erupt from the adoption of the Senate bill.Reacting to news of the Senate's move, Vyacheslav Nikonov, a Duma deputy, suggested compiling a \"Guant\u00e1namo list\" or \"Viktor Bout list\" to punish US officials involved in running the detention centre or in the jailing of Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout in the US.\"We need to create conditions so that the law will not be adopted,\" Nikonov told the RIA-Novosti news agency. \"And if they adopt it, Russia will have no choice but to give a symmetrical answer.\"Yet he acknowledged that a Russian travel ban would be unlikely to have much effect; whereas Russian citizens and officials travel to and own property in the US, the reverse is rarely true.\"I haven't heard that any of them have bank accounts inside Russia and don't think that many plan to move here \u2013 in other words, a symmetrical answer might not bring a symmetrical result,\" he said.The Obama administration made \"resetting\" relations with Russia a top foreign policy priority, but that has been tested recently by a host of disagreements, from Russia's refusal to halt its support of the Assad regime in Syria to official harassment of Michael McFaul, the US ambassador to Moscow.A clutch of US senators, including John McCain, have been urging the administration to adopt the Magnitsky bill as it pushes for the cancellation of the Jackson-Vanik amendment, a piece of legislation from the Soviet era that restricted US trade relations with the USSR because of concerns over human rights. McFaul and other administration officials have signalled they do not wish to countenance new legislation on the issue.Magnitsky died in 2009 after being denied medical treatment in a Russian pre-trial detention centre. The official cause of death was listed as heart failure, but the Kremlin's human rights council later said it was likely that he had been beaten to death. Magnitsky, then 37, was arrested after uncovering a scheme by which a group of tax and police officials allegedly worked together to defraud the state of around \u00a3150m in taxes. He had been hired by the investment house Hermitage Capital, run by London-based William Browder.His death sparked an international outcry. Putin and Dmitry Medvedev, now prime minister, denounced his death. Yet more than three years later, no one has been tried or jailed for involvement in his death, while several of the officials that Browder alleges ordered his arrest have been promoted.", "tags": ["Russia", "Human rights", "US Senate", "US news", "US politics", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Russia promises 'harsh' response over progress of Sergei Magnitsky bill"},{"date": "2012-06-12T21:27:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin does not like demonstrators and dissidents. He thinks of them as irresponsible and spoiled citizens at best, as tools of western plotters at worst. They do not show respect, they embarrass the Russian leadership in front of foreigners, they do not understand the problems of government, they lack national feeling. They are, in short, a bunch of clowns, idiots and traitors. He showed his views most clearly when he compared them to Kipling's \"Bandar-log\", the silly and scatterbrained monkey folk in The Jungle Book.When his critics tried to whip up feeling after the announcement that he and Dmitry Medvedev were going to swap jobs, Putin felt that this took away from the dignity that should have clothed the transfer.When they sought to mess up his inauguration as president, he felt this was an attempt to put a blot on what ought to have been a day of national rejoicing. It was predicted then that he would not let public protest become a periodic feature of his second presidency, and now he has moved to stamp it out, or at least to make it more difficult, costly, and perhaps even physically dangerous in the future.Last week the Duma passed a bill increasing the fines for taking part in unauthorised demonstrations to a level close to the average annual Russian salary. This week the security forces showed that even where permission to demonstrate has been obtained, the state will still intimidate and obstruct.On Monday squads of masked men burst into the homes of prominent opposition figures involved in preparations for a march and rally in Moscow, on the pretext that they were investigating incidents that took place during the inauguration protests in May. Dressing up its police as bank robbers or commandos is a part of the dismal macho style that characterises Putin's Russia. Why it is appropriate attire, for example, when entering the apartment of Ksenia Sobchak, a young female television presenter who has become one of the opposition's stars, has naturally not been explained. On Tuesday morning some of the leaders were called in again for questioning before being released and allowed to take part in the march and rally. The march itself was heavily policed and fenced off, and the coverage of a TV station sympathetic to the protesters was disrupted by a hacking attack.Putin's problem is that he faces a generation that was not alive under Soviet rule. Unlike their elders, they do not fear the state, nor do they feel the nostalgia for Soviet days that Putin exploits. He clearly wants them to feel a bit more fear and show a bit more respect. Not that much more: the opposition's comparisons with Stalin's roundups in 1937 are inappropriate. But once you start fiddling with the fear meter, who knows where it might end?", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Protest", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Putin's Russia: the fear meter | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-28T12:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's support for Sunday night's UN security council statement condemning the Houla killings is the first positive news to come out of the Syrian crisis for months. It opens up the possibility, hitherto remote, that Washington and Moscow may find common cause in easing out Bashar al-Assad and defusing the rebellion against the Damascus regime.Russian spokesmen moved quickly on Monday to suggest events in Houla, where the UN says 116 civilians including dozens of children died in a bombardment by government forces last Friday, were \"murky\", that regime opponents carried much of the blame for the carnage, and that Russia's opposition to regime change remained steadfast.But there was no escaping the fact that the unanimous UN statement represented a breach in the diplomatic defences Moscow has erected around the Syrian regime. And it can be assumed with some certainty, given its importance, that Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, will have taken the decision himself.Even as the Syrian death toll rose above 10,000, on UN figures, and Kofi Annan's peace mission floundered, Russia continued to peddle the regime line that terrorists and religious extremists were responsible for provoking the violence. Now, by agreeing with the US and Britain that Assad is in violation of international law through his resort to \"outrageous use of force\", Moscow has taken a both substantive and symbolic step towards backing the Syrian leader's dethronement.Russia has been under intense diplomatic pressure to shift position, pressure that has begun to damage its wider interests in the Middle East, in relation to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states (all opposed to Assad), and bilaterally with key European powers and the US. But this is in itself does not explain Moscow's tentative lurch towards consensus.A more likely explanation is the return to the foreign policy helm of Putin, reinstalled this month as Russia's president. Putin is no dove, no cuddly peacemaker, as he has demonstrated repeatedly in conflict zones from Chechnya to Georgia. His approach is more that of a hard-nosed, unsentimental calculator of national advantage.The most important item on Putin's international agenda is not Syria, or any of the other Arab spring uprisings, for that matter. It is his meeting next month with Barack Obama. Putin deliberately snubbed the G8 summit hosted by the US president last week in Maryland. He made Obama wait several days before agreeing to accept his telephoned congratulations on his return to the presidency.All this is familiar Putin-style oneupmanship. In theory, it gives him a psychological advantage when the two men meet. So what does Putin want?Putin wants guarantees about US-led missile defence plans in Europe and Asia, which Russia characterises as deeply threatening to its security. Putin wants acceptance of the Caucasus status quo following the Russian-backed secession of Georgian territories in 2008. Putin wants a fruitful Russian membership of the World Trade Organisation. Putin wants an end to US criticism of Russia's \"managed democracy\" and civil rights deficit. The list goes on.Crucially, also, Russia wants a peaceful resolution of the looming crisis over Iran's nuclear programme. When Putin meets Obama, he will be looking for assurances that the US will block any Israeli military action against Iranian nuclear facilities, and will not take part in any such action itself.For the Kremlin, a war along its southern, central Asian flank would be far more deeply destabilising, politically and economically, than any amount of turmoil in Syria.Obama wants a lot from Putin, too, including co-operation on producing a successful, negotiated conclusion to the Iranian saga, plus help in dealing with common headaches such as North Korea. So there are plenty of indirect incentives for both sides for an accommodation on Syria.In preparation for their bilateral summit, Thomas Donilon, Obama's national security adviser, discussed Syria with Putin in Moscow three weeks ago, according to the New York Times. When Obama raised Assad's future with the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, at the G8 meeting, Medvedev appeared receptive, American officials said.Under the nascent deal, Russia would agree to the removal of Assad and his replacement by a less controversial government figure, following the example of the transition in Yemen. The regime would remain largely intact, and so too would Russia's Syrian sphere of interest, including its commercial relationships and its naval base.For his part, under such a scenario, Obama would be able to claim that the Syrian boil had been lanced without resort to military intervention (which Russia strongly opposes).Any such outcome would be hard for the democratic Syrian opposition to swallow and would fall far short of the regime-changing revolution many are seeking. It also implies an amnesty for Assad and his henchmen, and leaves open the question where the Syrian president might go if he were forced into exile.So it is all very tentative, to say the least. As of now, the only deal on the table remains the UN-backed but deeply battered Annan plan, a point emphasised on Monday in Moscow by William Hague, the British foreign secretary, who called it Syria's \"last hope\".The six-point plan calls for a ceasefire, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and troops from population centres, humanitarian assistance, release of prisoners and free movement and access for journalists.Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, accompanying Hague, did not rule out Assad's departure but said regime change in Damascus was \"not the most important thing\". Arab League leaders have dropped their earlier demand that Assad resign.But this remains the strongly held position of the American and EU governments \u2013 and notwithstanding Annan's meeting in Damascus with Assad on Tuesday, it is very hard to see any plausible end-scenario in the Syrian crisis that leaves Assad in power.If he is ultimately forced out as the result of some sort of US-Russian backroom deal, it will be the kind of result that has become typical of Obama's style. Unlike George Bush, Obama does not do conventional wars in other people's countries. He does special forces, drone strikes, covert ops, bribes and assassinations. And deals. If he can pull this off in Syria, it will be a very American coup.", "tags": ["Russia", "Syria", "US news", "Barack Obama", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "World news", "Bashar al-Assad", "United Nations"], "title": "Syria: why Russia changed tack"},{"date": "2012-06-09T23:03:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The failure of the west to utter a threat that might limit the slaughter in Syria is made flesh in the pitiful figure of Michael McFaul, the American ambassador to Moscow. Pitiful, but also ridiculous, because McFaul is a diplomatic Malvolio: so desperate to please that he never guesses that everyone is laughing at him.His actions are of a liberal, if of the guilt-ridden variety. Their effects are anything but liberal. From the best of intentions, he is ending with the worst of outcomes. In this, he is a true representative of the Obama administration.You will remember that in the 2008 presidential election, the Democrats argued that George Bush was a certain cowboy and probable war criminal \u2013 a \"stupid white man\" to use the words that Michael Moore might better have directed at himself. When Obama came to power, he would \"engage\" with Putin's Russia, \"reach out\" to the ayatollahs' Iran and \"reset\" American foreign policy. Liberal America (and Europe) thought that \"the duty to repent forbids the western bloc, which is eternally guilty, to judge or combat other systems, other states, other religions\", as the French philosopher Pascal Bruckner said in The Tyranny of Guilt, his dissection of western masochism. It hoped that once the west repented and replaced a stupid white man with a smart black man it would remove the \"root cause\" of anti-western hostility. There would be no need to judge or combat our enemies. Indeed, our enemies would reveal themselves to be no enemies at all but an unjustly demonised \"other\", the victims of our paranoid fears and racist stereotypes.The failure of western diplomacy in Syria has been a bloody destroyer of illusions. The US, Britain, France, Turkey and the Arab League have acquiesced to a Russian veto. While they have agonised over the morality and practicality of \"liberal intervention\", the dictatorships have been practising \"illiberal intervention\" in a modern echo of the Spanish Civil War.Assad's crimes have not stopped Putin supplying his client with arms. After Ba'athist forces massacred at least 108 people near Houla, Putin's foreign minister insisted that \"both sides obviously had a hand in the deaths of innocent people\". After the massacre in Mazraat al-Qubair, Russia said it wanted Iran involved in any peacemaking process. This was too much even for Hillary Clinton, a stateswoman whose tolerance had appeared to be infinite. Even she knew that Iran's revolutionary guards are engaged in an illiberal intervention of their own on the side of the ayatollahs' allies in the Allawite minority. As Michael Weiss, Syria expert at the Henry Jackson Society, said: \"Asking Russia and Iran to help find peace is like asking a rapist to lead a Reclaim the Night rally.\"The \"progressives\" of the last decade did not understand that dictatorships are rarely just a rational reaction to western crimes. They have their own reasons, which do not cease to motivate them once a liberal is in the White House. Autocrats do not think that they are thieves and megalomaniacs. It goes against human nature for criminals to admit what they are. They dignify their will for power by seeing themselves as the only people who can maintain order and hold their countries together.To their mind, therefore, opponents must be traitors not only to the ruling family or clique, but to the nation. Democracy and human rights are not competing ideologies or the legitimate demands of honourable opponents, but the subversive doctrines of the imperialist west that dictatorships must unite to oppose. One of the least noticed features of the modern world is how the common interest of dictators has collapsed differences between ideologies. Look closely and you see a trade unionism of the authoritarian; a tyrannous ecumenism. On paper, crony-capitalist Russia, communist Cuba, Ba'athist Syria and Islamist Iran have nothing in common. But they will always form a united front against liberalism.Michael McFaul is not an idiot, or at least not obviously so. A distinguished academic, he helped organise the reset of Obama's Russian policy. He shared the administration's assumptions that once the Kremlin realised that reasonable men and women were in charge in Washington, it would cooperate.For all his scholarship, McFaul did not understand the dictatorial mind. He arrived in Russia in January when the opposition movement against the kleptocracy was growing. Putin, like Assad, had to blame dissent on foreigners and convince his supporters they were defending the motherland from the plots of alien enemies rather than the legitimate grievances of subjugated Russians. McFaul was the nearest target to hand, so the state media hit him. Flunkey journalists accused him of being the puppet master behind the protests. When he met dissidents, state broadcasters, who clearly knew his schedule, trailed him. Putin supporters posted videos comparing him to a paedophile.McFaul, who cared so much, who was trying so hard, wailed to Julia Ioffe of Foreign Affairs in February: \"What I did not anticipate, honestly, was the degree, the volume, the relentless anti-Americanism. That is odd for us. Because we have spent three years trying to build a different relationship with this country. I mean, I'm genuinely confused by it.\" According to Ioffe, a \"note of real hurt\" rang in his normally chipper voice. Nevertheless, he overcame his pain. By last week, McFaul was as much a Uriah Heap as a Malvolio as he humbly accepted the abuse the Kremlin directed at him.In a breach of all protocols covering the treatment of ambassadors, the Russian foreign ministry lambasted him on Twitter for propagating \"blatant falsehoods\" at a presentation in Moscow to academics. What made the diplomatic incident pathetic was that although McFaul had made mild and true criticisms in his speech, he filled most of it with praise. As he said in his reply to the Kremlin on Twitter, he had \"highlighted over 20 positive results of 'reset'\".Even while the Russians traduced him, McFaul did not understand that the \"reset\" had been on the western side only. For Putin, nothing had changed. McFaul concluded by tweeting that Russia had launched a Twitter war against him. Never mind, harsh words were better than armed conflict. \"That's the new world \u2013 followers instead of nukes,\" he said. \"Better.\"It is not \"better\" in Syria, whose largely defenceless population is suffering from more than nasty tweets. The Russian and Iranians understand that the battle for Syria is a battle they must win for their sakes as much as Assad's. The democracies are too blinded by the failures of the Bush years to see it. Until they press the reset button, there will be no end to the killing.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Bashar al-Assad", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Russia is playing western democrats for dupes | Nick Cohen"},{"date": "2012-06-28T12:55:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": " Russia will follow through with plans to deliver attack helicopters to Syria because it considers the country its friend, a senior official has said.\"Syria is our friend, and we fulfil all our obligations to our friends,\" Alexander Fomin, head of the federal service for military-technical co-operation, told RIA-Novosti. \"According to a 2008 contract, we repaired three Mi-25s and are ready to deliver them on time.\"Russia has come under fire for refusing to halt its co-operation with the regime of Bashar al-Assad, one of its last remaining allies in the Middle East.A Russian ship sailing under the Cura\u00e7ao flag attempted to deliver the three attack helicopters as well as air defence systems last month, but turned back as it rounded the coast of Scotland after its British insurers withdrew their coverage amid international criticism.The ship returned to port in Russia and was re-outfitted with a Russian flag. It would sail with a non-military escort, the ship's owner, Femco, said earlier this week.An unnamed \"military-diplomatic source\" told the Interfax news agency on Wednesday that Russia could deliver the helicopters by air. \"In any case, Russia must fulfil its obligations,\" the source said. \"However, everything will depend on whether we can withstand the pressure from the west.\"Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, has insisted that the weapons are defensive in nature and are not feeding the violence in Syria. He has said Russia is simply fulfilling its contracts, taking pains to assure the west that Russia's opposition to foreign intervention in Syria does not equate to support for Assad.Lavrov is due to meet Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, later on Thursday during her brief visit to St Petersburg. The two are due to attend a meeting in Geneva on the Syria crisis this weekend.", "tags": ["Syria", "Russia", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Arms trade", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Syria will receive attack helicopters from Russia, Kremlin confirms"},{"date": "2012-06-27T16:24:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has condemned a US Senate committee's approval of a bill that would ban officials accused of human rights abuses from entering the United States.On Tuesday, the Senate's foreign relations committee unanimously passed a bill named after Sergei Magnitsky, a young lawyer who died in jail in 2009 after uncovering an alleged corruption scheme involving Russian tax officials and police. His arrest and subsequent death are widely seen as symbolising the absence of rule of law inside Russia.Sergei Ryabkov, Russia's deputy foreign minister, called the committee's decision \"counterproductive\". Russia's response would be \"harsh\" and \"not necessarily symmetrical\", he told state television on Wednesday.The bill, put forward by Senator Benjamin Cardin, would ban officials allegedly involved in Magnitsky's death from entering the US, and impose restrictions on their financial activities inside the country.Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, warned at the G8 summit in Mexico earlier this month that Russia would ban US officials from entering Russia if the Magnitsky bill was passed.The US state department has already quietly banned 60 officials linked to the Magnitsky case \u2013 a move seen as an attempt to avoid the public row that would erupt from the adoption of the Senate bill.Reacting to news of the Senate's move, Vyacheslav Nikonov, a Duma deputy, suggested compiling a \"Guant\u00e1namo list\" or \"Viktor Bout list\" to punish US officials involved in running the detention centre or in the jailing of Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout in the US.\"We need to create conditions so that the law will not be adopted,\" Nikonov told the RIA-Novosti news agency. \"And if they adopt it, Russia will have no choice but to give a symmetrical answer.\"Yet he acknowledged that a Russian travel ban would be unlikely to have much effect; whereas Russian citizens and officials travel to and own property in the US, the reverse is rarely true.\"I haven't heard that any of them have bank accounts inside Russia and don't think that many plan to move here \u2013 in other words, a symmetrical answer might not bring a symmetrical result,\" he said.The Obama administration made \"resetting\" relations with Russia a top foreign policy priority, but that has been tested recently by a host of disagreements, from Russia's refusal to halt its support of the Assad regime in Syria to official harassment of Michael McFaul, the US ambassador to Moscow.A clutch of US senators, including John McCain, have been urging the administration to adopt the Magnitsky bill as it pushes for the cancellation of the Jackson-Vanik amendment, a piece of legislation from the Soviet era that restricted US trade relations with the USSR because of concerns over human rights. McFaul and other administration officials have signalled they do not wish to countenance new legislation on the issue.Magnitsky died in 2009 after being denied medical treatment in a Russian pre-trial detention centre. The official cause of death was listed as heart failure, but the Kremlin's human rights council later said it was likely that he had been beaten to death. Magnitsky, then 37, was arrested after uncovering a scheme by which a group of tax and police officials allegedly worked together to defraud the state of around \u00a3150m in taxes. He had been hired by the investment house Hermitage Capital, run by London-based William Browder.His death sparked an international outcry. Putin and Dmitry Medvedev, now prime minister, denounced his death. Yet more than three years later, no one has been tried or jailed for involvement in his death, while several of the officials that Browder alleges ordered his arrest have been promoted.", "tags": ["Russia", "Human rights", "US Senate", "US news", "US politics", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Russia promises 'harsh' response over progress of Sergei Magnitsky bill"},{"date": "2012-06-25T13:22:53Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A Russian ship carrying attack helicopters that was prevented from sailing to Syria has been refitted with a Russian flag, rousing suspicions it is preparing for a second attempt.The MV Alaed, carrying air defence systems and helicopters to Syria, was forced to return to port last week after its British insurers withdrew their coverage as the ship rounded the coast of Scotland. The Foreign Office and Treasury had warned the insurance company, Standard Club, that it could be in breach of sanctions against the regime of Bashar al-Assad if they allowed the ship to pass.Sailing under the Cura\u00e7ao flag, the ship returned on Sunday to the northern port of Murmansk, where it was \"awaiting further instructions\", the ship's owner, Femco, said in a statement. It said it would not comment on \"the nature of the cargo on board\".The vague statement stood in stark contrast to official attempts to justify the weapons delivery.Last week Russia's foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, admitted that the Alaed was carrying supplies for Syria. \"The ship was carrying air defence systems, which can be used only for repelling foreign aggression and not against peaceful demonstrators, and it was carrying three repaired helicopters,\" he told Ekho Mosvky radio.Russia has repeatedly brushed off criticism of its continuing support for the Assad regime, insisting it was merely fulfilling long-agreed contracts in delivering supplies to Syria. Its role in arming Assad is likely to come under renewed scrutiny following the regime's downing of a Turkish jet at the weekend.The shipments show no signs of stopping. An unidentified \"military-diplomatic source\" told the Interfax news agency on Sunday that the Alaed would soon travel from Murmansk to Syria in a second attempt to deliver the shipment. \"The ship will travel under escort to avoid any sort of provocation,\" the source said. The escort ship would not be a naval one, the source added.Femco made no mention of Syria in its statement, saying the ship's final destination was the far eastern port of Vladivostok. The ship would sail under the Russian flag \"in order to protect its interests, the security of the ship and the protection of its crew, all of whom are citizens of Russia\", it said.Analysts said the flag change could up the stakes, threatening an international incident if any attempts were made to board it. Reports said the Russian flag was raised on Monday.\"We don't plan on justifying ourselves, because we haven't violated anything \u2013 not international law, not a UN security council resolution, not our own national laws on export controls, which are some of the strictest in the world,\" Lavrov said last week.Syria is Russia's main remaining ally in the Middle East, a key weapons client and host to its base at Tartus, Russia's only military base outside the former Soviet Union.An unidentified military source told Interfax last week that Russia was sending two warships to the base in case it needed to evacuate the thousands of Russian citizens living inside Syria.", "tags": ["Russia", "Syria", "Arms trade", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia may be preparing second attempt at Syrian arms shipment"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-09-19T11:58:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has accused the US of using its aid agency in Moscow to covertly influence the country's politics and elections, explaining its decision to expel the mission amid a wider crackdown on the opposition movement.The Russian government has given the US agency for international development (USAid) until 1 October to cease all operations in the country. The agency helps fund a number of pro-democracy and human rights groups that have provoked the Kremlin's wrath amid an unprecedented opposition movement against the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.In an uncharacteristically blunt statement, the Russian foreign ministry said that the decision to shut USAid was taken primarily because the agency's work \"does not always correspond to [its] stated goals\".\"This means attempts to exert influence, via the distribution of grants, upon political processes, including elections of various levels and institutions of civil society,\" it said.Putin has accused the US state department of orchestrating the mass protests that have swept Moscow since he announced his intention to run for the presidency again late last year. A main target of his ire has been Golos, an independent election monitoring group that receives the bulk of its funding from USAid and was key in exposing electoral fraud in a December parliamentary vote that helped bring tens of thousands of protesters on to the streets.The foreign ministry also expressed its displeasure with the agency's work in the troubled North Caucasus, a region still wracked by the remnants of a violent Islamist insurgency. \"USAid's activity in the Russian regions, especially the North Caucasus, prompted serious questions, which we warned our American colleagues about repeatedly,\" the statement said.USAid has been operating in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse, funding groups that have received little or no government support, including medical NGOs devoted to fighting HIV/Aids and tuberculosis and various environmental groups. Yet the bulk of its funding goes to civil society groups focused on building up democracy and human rights in the country, including Golos, human rights NGO Memorial and corruption watchdog Transparency International.Putin has repeatedly criticised groups that receive foreign funding and has accused opposition protesters of acting on orders from Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. The Russian parliament passed a law this summer obliging NGOs that receive foreign grants to publicly brand themselves \"foreign agents\", a term reminiscent of the spy terminology used during the cold war.Grigory Melkonyants, the deputy director of Golos, said it was \"practically impossible\" to get funding from within Russia. \"Supporting human rights \u2013 be it for prisoners, or election monitoring, or anything \u2013 is a very sharp question for our current leadership. Business doesn't want to risk putting money into this,\" he said.Putin has taken great pains to convince the wider Russian population that any criticism of his government is a foreign plot. Russian officials and media have also accused the US of being behind the Arab spring uprisings, including in Egypt, where USAid came under pressure in the wake of Egypt's uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak.The move against USAid was announced by the state department on Tuesday and official state media in Russia remained silent on the issue on Wednesday. An official inside the Obama administration vowed that the US would find ways to continue to fund civil society groups, potentially paving the way for a long stand-off.The Russian government brought immense pressure against the British Council in the wake of the murder of dissident Alexander Litvinenko in London in late 2006 in a tussle that lasted for more than a year.The foreign ministry also said its decision to shut USAid was prompted by the \"maturity\" of its civil society. \"Russian civil society has become entirely mature and does not need 'external leadership',\" it said.Government critics said the move was the latest attempt to put pressure on the opposition. In the past few months, charges have been brought against more than a dozen protesters as well as opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Opposition MP Gennady Gudkov was stripped of his mandate last week. A series of laws that increase fines for protesting and slander have been passed, as well as a bill that critics fear will tighten the government's control over the internet.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "Alexei Navalny", "Aid", "Governance", "Global development", "USAid"], "title": "USAid covertly influencing political processes, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-09-19T11:58:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has accused the US of using its aid agency in Moscow to covertly influence the country's politics and elections, explaining its decision to expel the mission amid a wider crackdown on the opposition movement.The Russian government has given the US agency for international development (USAid) until 1 October to cease all operations in the country. The agency helps fund a number of pro-democracy and human rights groups that have provoked the Kremlin's wrath amid an unprecedented opposition movement against the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.In an uncharacteristically blunt statement, the Russian foreign ministry said that the decision to shut USAid was taken primarily because the agency's work \"does not always correspond to [its] stated goals\".\"This means attempts to exert influence, via the distribution of grants, upon political processes, including elections of various levels and institutions of civil society,\" it said.Putin has accused the US state department of orchestrating the mass protests that have swept Moscow since he announced his intention to run for the presidency again late last year. A main target of his ire has been Golos, an independent election monitoring group that receives the bulk of its funding from USAid and was key in exposing electoral fraud in a December parliamentary vote that helped bring tens of thousands of protesters on to the streets.The foreign ministry also expressed its displeasure with the agency's work in the troubled North Caucasus, a region still wracked by the remnants of a violent Islamist insurgency. \"USAid's activity in the Russian regions, especially the North Caucasus, prompted serious questions, which we warned our American colleagues about repeatedly,\" the statement said.USAid has been operating in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse, funding groups that have received little or no government support, including medical NGOs devoted to fighting HIV/Aids and tuberculosis and various environmental groups. Yet the bulk of its funding goes to civil society groups focused on building up democracy and human rights in the country, including Golos, human rights NGO Memorial and corruption watchdog Transparency International.Putin has repeatedly criticised groups that receive foreign funding and has accused opposition protesters of acting on orders from Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. The Russian parliament passed a law this summer obliging NGOs that receive foreign grants to publicly brand themselves \"foreign agents\", a term reminiscent of the spy terminology used during the cold war.Grigory Melkonyants, the deputy director of Golos, said it was \"practically impossible\" to get funding from within Russia. \"Supporting human rights \u2013 be it for prisoners, or election monitoring, or anything \u2013 is a very sharp question for our current leadership. Business doesn't want to risk putting money into this,\" he said.Putin has taken great pains to convince the wider Russian population that any criticism of his government is a foreign plot. Russian officials and media have also accused the US of being behind the Arab spring uprisings, including in Egypt, where USAid came under pressure in the wake of Egypt's uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak.The move against USAid was announced by the state department on Tuesday and official state media in Russia remained silent on the issue on Wednesday. An official inside the Obama administration vowed that the US would find ways to continue to fund civil society groups, potentially paving the way for a long stand-off.The Russian government brought immense pressure against the British Council in the wake of the murder of dissident Alexander Litvinenko in London in late 2006 in a tussle that lasted for more than a year.The foreign ministry also said its decision to shut USAid was prompted by the \"maturity\" of its civil society. \"Russian civil society has become entirely mature and does not need 'external leadership',\" it said.Government critics said the move was the latest attempt to put pressure on the opposition. In the past few months, charges have been brought against more than a dozen protesters as well as opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Opposition MP Gennady Gudkov was stripped of his mandate last week. A series of laws that increase fines for protesting and slander have been passed, as well as a bill that critics fear will tighten the government's control over the internet.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "Alexei Navalny", "Aid", "Governance", "Global development", "USAid"], "title": "USAid covertly influencing political processes, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-07-24T14:17:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Since the company launched in 2010, we've been providing Russian language training for businesses and individuals. With the owner's background in linguistics and business development, in autumn 2011 it was the right time to offer a new service to the clients \u2013 business consulting for organisations looking for expansion in Russia.At that point we could clearly demonstrate our clients' satisfaction in our Russian language tuition and our owner's success stories as a business development professional in Russia and the UK.We were given a lead to an Asian university struggling to find top-ranked Russian partner universities to establish student exchange programmes and top-ranked schools to recruit students from. We submitted a proposal and successfully defended our case in a series of online meetings and emails.From December 2011 we prepared several reports on the Russian education system and a list of universities consolidating the different ranking systems (there is no common league in Russia). We contacted the best four universities and scheduled meetings with the vice-chancellors' offices of three of them. We also identified and contacted top-ranked schools.Alongside this, we coordinated the logistics of the visit to Moscow and St Petersburg, and in April 2012, the visit to Russia took place.The work resulted in seven Russian institutions agreeing to partner and cooperate with our client. Currently the work is under way to sign the necessary contracts and prepare further visits to Russia in order to enhance these relations and find some more partnering institutions.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter on Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice exchange", "Best practice: Winning new business"], "title": "Winning new business: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-09-19T11:58:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has accused the US of using its aid agency in Moscow to covertly influence the country's politics and elections, explaining its decision to expel the mission amid a wider crackdown on the opposition movement.The Russian government has given the US agency for international development (USAid) until 1 October to cease all operations in the country. The agency helps fund a number of pro-democracy and human rights groups that have provoked the Kremlin's wrath amid an unprecedented opposition movement against the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.In an uncharacteristically blunt statement, the Russian foreign ministry said that the decision to shut USAid was taken primarily because the agency's work \"does not always correspond to [its] stated goals\".\"This means attempts to exert influence, via the distribution of grants, upon political processes, including elections of various levels and institutions of civil society,\" it said.Putin has accused the US state department of orchestrating the mass protests that have swept Moscow since he announced his intention to run for the presidency again late last year. A main target of his ire has been Golos, an independent election monitoring group that receives the bulk of its funding from USAid and was key in exposing electoral fraud in a December parliamentary vote that helped bring tens of thousands of protesters on to the streets.The foreign ministry also expressed its displeasure with the agency's work in the troubled North Caucasus, a region still wracked by the remnants of a violent Islamist insurgency. \"USAid's activity in the Russian regions, especially the North Caucasus, prompted serious questions, which we warned our American colleagues about repeatedly,\" the statement said.USAid has been operating in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse, funding groups that have received little or no government support, including medical NGOs devoted to fighting HIV/Aids and tuberculosis and various environmental groups. Yet the bulk of its funding goes to civil society groups focused on building up democracy and human rights in the country, including Golos, human rights NGO Memorial and corruption watchdog Transparency International.Putin has repeatedly criticised groups that receive foreign funding and has accused opposition protesters of acting on orders from Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. The Russian parliament passed a law this summer obliging NGOs that receive foreign grants to publicly brand themselves \"foreign agents\", a term reminiscent of the spy terminology used during the cold war.Grigory Melkonyants, the deputy director of Golos, said it was \"practically impossible\" to get funding from within Russia. \"Supporting human rights \u2013 be it for prisoners, or election monitoring, or anything \u2013 is a very sharp question for our current leadership. Business doesn't want to risk putting money into this,\" he said.Putin has taken great pains to convince the wider Russian population that any criticism of his government is a foreign plot. Russian officials and media have also accused the US of being behind the Arab spring uprisings, including in Egypt, where USAid came under pressure in the wake of Egypt's uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak.The move against USAid was announced by the state department on Tuesday and official state media in Russia remained silent on the issue on Wednesday. An official inside the Obama administration vowed that the US would find ways to continue to fund civil society groups, potentially paving the way for a long stand-off.The Russian government brought immense pressure against the British Council in the wake of the murder of dissident Alexander Litvinenko in London in late 2006 in a tussle that lasted for more than a year.The foreign ministry also said its decision to shut USAid was prompted by the \"maturity\" of its civil society. \"Russian civil society has become entirely mature and does not need 'external leadership',\" it said.Government critics said the move was the latest attempt to put pressure on the opposition. In the past few months, charges have been brought against more than a dozen protesters as well as opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Opposition MP Gennady Gudkov was stripped of his mandate last week. A series of laws that increase fines for protesting and slander have been passed, as well as a bill that critics fear will tighten the government's control over the internet.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "Alexei Navalny", "Aid", "Governance", "Global development", "USAid"], "title": "USAid covertly influencing political processes, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-07-24T14:17:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Since the company launched in 2010, we've been providing Russian language training for businesses and individuals. With the owner's background in linguistics and business development, in autumn 2011 it was the right time to offer a new service to the clients \u2013 business consulting for organisations looking for expansion in Russia.At that point we could clearly demonstrate our clients' satisfaction in our Russian language tuition and our owner's success stories as a business development professional in Russia and the UK.We were given a lead to an Asian university struggling to find top-ranked Russian partner universities to establish student exchange programmes and top-ranked schools to recruit students from. We submitted a proposal and successfully defended our case in a series of online meetings and emails.From December 2011 we prepared several reports on the Russian education system and a list of universities consolidating the different ranking systems (there is no common league in Russia). We contacted the best four universities and scheduled meetings with the vice-chancellors' offices of three of them. We also identified and contacted top-ranked schools.Alongside this, we coordinated the logistics of the visit to Moscow and St Petersburg, and in April 2012, the visit to Russia took place.The work resulted in seven Russian institutions agreeing to partner and cooperate with our client. Currently the work is under way to sign the necessary contracts and prepare further visits to Russia in order to enhance these relations and find some more partnering institutions.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter on Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice exchange", "Best practice: Winning new business"], "title": "Winning new business: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-07-16T07:04:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "New Russian laws are aimed at making defamation a criminal offence and giving the authorities the power to block websites. They are now awaiting President Vladimir Putin's signatureThe defamation bill, as approved by the state duma, would allow judges to levy fines up to 5m rubles (\u00a3100,000). An initial proposal to jail offenders was dropped.The New York-based press freedom watchdog, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), says the law \"demonstrates just how much Russia is diverging from accepted international norms of human rights.\"The internet bill will allow a new agency to create a blacklist of websites. Its existence contradicts previous claims by the prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, that Russia's uncensored internet is proof of the country's respect for a free press.CPJ comments: \"That Russia will so quickly abandon that standard shows how fragile its respect can be.\"Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Russia", "Media law", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Russia to make libel a criminal offence"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-09-19T11:58:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has accused the US of using its aid agency in Moscow to covertly influence the country's politics and elections, explaining its decision to expel the mission amid a wider crackdown on the opposition movement.The Russian government has given the US agency for international development (USAid) until 1 October to cease all operations in the country. The agency helps fund a number of pro-democracy and human rights groups that have provoked the Kremlin's wrath amid an unprecedented opposition movement against the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.In an uncharacteristically blunt statement, the Russian foreign ministry said that the decision to shut USAid was taken primarily because the agency's work \"does not always correspond to [its] stated goals\".\"This means attempts to exert influence, via the distribution of grants, upon political processes, including elections of various levels and institutions of civil society,\" it said.Putin has accused the US state department of orchestrating the mass protests that have swept Moscow since he announced his intention to run for the presidency again late last year. A main target of his ire has been Golos, an independent election monitoring group that receives the bulk of its funding from USAid and was key in exposing electoral fraud in a December parliamentary vote that helped bring tens of thousands of protesters on to the streets.The foreign ministry also expressed its displeasure with the agency's work in the troubled North Caucasus, a region still wracked by the remnants of a violent Islamist insurgency. \"USAid's activity in the Russian regions, especially the North Caucasus, prompted serious questions, which we warned our American colleagues about repeatedly,\" the statement said.USAid has been operating in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse, funding groups that have received little or no government support, including medical NGOs devoted to fighting HIV/Aids and tuberculosis and various environmental groups. Yet the bulk of its funding goes to civil society groups focused on building up democracy and human rights in the country, including Golos, human rights NGO Memorial and corruption watchdog Transparency International.Putin has repeatedly criticised groups that receive foreign funding and has accused opposition protesters of acting on orders from Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. The Russian parliament passed a law this summer obliging NGOs that receive foreign grants to publicly brand themselves \"foreign agents\", a term reminiscent of the spy terminology used during the cold war.Grigory Melkonyants, the deputy director of Golos, said it was \"practically impossible\" to get funding from within Russia. \"Supporting human rights \u2013 be it for prisoners, or election monitoring, or anything \u2013 is a very sharp question for our current leadership. Business doesn't want to risk putting money into this,\" he said.Putin has taken great pains to convince the wider Russian population that any criticism of his government is a foreign plot. Russian officials and media have also accused the US of being behind the Arab spring uprisings, including in Egypt, where USAid came under pressure in the wake of Egypt's uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak.The move against USAid was announced by the state department on Tuesday and official state media in Russia remained silent on the issue on Wednesday. An official inside the Obama administration vowed that the US would find ways to continue to fund civil society groups, potentially paving the way for a long stand-off.The Russian government brought immense pressure against the British Council in the wake of the murder of dissident Alexander Litvinenko in London in late 2006 in a tussle that lasted for more than a year.The foreign ministry also said its decision to shut USAid was prompted by the \"maturity\" of its civil society. \"Russian civil society has become entirely mature and does not need 'external leadership',\" it said.Government critics said the move was the latest attempt to put pressure on the opposition. In the past few months, charges have been brought against more than a dozen protesters as well as opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Opposition MP Gennady Gudkov was stripped of his mandate last week. A series of laws that increase fines for protesting and slander have been passed, as well as a bill that critics fear will tighten the government's control over the internet.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "Alexei Navalny", "Aid", "Governance", "Global development", "USAid"], "title": "USAid covertly influencing political processes, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-07-24T14:17:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Since the company launched in 2010, we've been providing Russian language training for businesses and individuals. With the owner's background in linguistics and business development, in autumn 2011 it was the right time to offer a new service to the clients \u2013 business consulting for organisations looking for expansion in Russia.At that point we could clearly demonstrate our clients' satisfaction in our Russian language tuition and our owner's success stories as a business development professional in Russia and the UK.We were given a lead to an Asian university struggling to find top-ranked Russian partner universities to establish student exchange programmes and top-ranked schools to recruit students from. We submitted a proposal and successfully defended our case in a series of online meetings and emails.From December 2011 we prepared several reports on the Russian education system and a list of universities consolidating the different ranking systems (there is no common league in Russia). We contacted the best four universities and scheduled meetings with the vice-chancellors' offices of three of them. We also identified and contacted top-ranked schools.Alongside this, we coordinated the logistics of the visit to Moscow and St Petersburg, and in April 2012, the visit to Russia took place.The work resulted in seven Russian institutions agreeing to partner and cooperate with our client. Currently the work is under way to sign the necessary contracts and prepare further visits to Russia in order to enhance these relations and find some more partnering institutions.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter on Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice exchange", "Best practice: Winning new business"], "title": "Winning new business: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-07-16T07:04:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "New Russian laws are aimed at making defamation a criminal offence and giving the authorities the power to block websites. They are now awaiting President Vladimir Putin's signatureThe defamation bill, as approved by the state duma, would allow judges to levy fines up to 5m rubles (\u00a3100,000). An initial proposal to jail offenders was dropped.The New York-based press freedom watchdog, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), says the law \"demonstrates just how much Russia is diverging from accepted international norms of human rights.\"The internet bill will allow a new agency to create a blacklist of websites. Its existence contradicts previous claims by the prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, that Russia's uncensored internet is proof of the country's respect for a free press.CPJ comments: \"That Russia will so quickly abandon that standard shows how fragile its respect can be.\"Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Russia", "Media law", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Russia to make libel a criminal offence"},{"date": "2012-07-09T22:42:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Floods do not have to be political disasters. Gerhard Schr\u00f6der's response when the Elbe burst its banks reversed a federal election in 2002 that he was predicted to lose. The floods of Gloucestershire established Gordon Brown's reputation as a competent leader in 2007, until he himself sabotaged it. But disasters occupy a place apart in Russia. It is not just that major incidents such as aeroplane crashes, forest fires, gas explosions and roof collapses occur regularly. It is also that they hit a live political nerve. Survivors do not see themselves exclusively as victims of fate. They also see themselves as victims of their state. There is so little trust between the two, and no independent institutions to cushion the shock, that disaster presents a surer challenge to the man at the top than many a demonstration.Vladimir Putin moved swiftly on Saturday to show he was in charge of the rescue operation after a flash flood swept at least 171 people away in the town of Krymsk in southern Russia, submerging thousands of houses the night before. He and the regional governor travelled up and down the disaster zone by helicopter and minibus, and Mr Putin ordered an inquiry into why warnings were not given and who should have given them. \"I ask you to co-operate,\" he told a meeting of emergency officials in the town. Neither the footage of Mr Putin demanding answers nor the postmen stuffing envelopes of cash into householders' hands will be anything like enough.Whether or not it turns out to be the case that the wall of water which swept through the town came from a nearby reservoir whose gates were temporarily opened (this was denied yesterday by emergencies minister Vladimir Puchkov), or that it was unloaded on Krymsk to save lucrative oil installations in the nearby port of Novorossiysk, the truth will have a hard time making itself heard. The working assumption is that power is theft and that when its venal rulers are not actively thieving they are passive connivers in the collapse of the state. So often accused from afar of being the strongman of a strong state, Mr Putin, as viewed from Krymsk and many other disaster zones like it, is the exact opposite \u2013 a weak man presiding over a collapsing state, one hard put to deliver the bare minimum of emergency services.Mr Putin cannot be blamed for everything that goes wrong in Russia. He can, however, reflect on one aspect of this blame game. Each time a disaster strikes, Mr Putin finds that nothing stands between him and the outraged victim. That is a consequence of years of \"manual control\", years of lack of investment in infrastructure, and the vertical structure of directly appointed officials, which is now buckling under the weight of its own ineptitude. That is by design, and it is a rotten one.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment"], "title": "Russia: government and other national disasters  | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-09-19T11:58:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has accused the US of using its aid agency in Moscow to covertly influence the country's politics and elections, explaining its decision to expel the mission amid a wider crackdown on the opposition movement.The Russian government has given the US agency for international development (USAid) until 1 October to cease all operations in the country. The agency helps fund a number of pro-democracy and human rights groups that have provoked the Kremlin's wrath amid an unprecedented opposition movement against the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.In an uncharacteristically blunt statement, the Russian foreign ministry said that the decision to shut USAid was taken primarily because the agency's work \"does not always correspond to [its] stated goals\".\"This means attempts to exert influence, via the distribution of grants, upon political processes, including elections of various levels and institutions of civil society,\" it said.Putin has accused the US state department of orchestrating the mass protests that have swept Moscow since he announced his intention to run for the presidency again late last year. A main target of his ire has been Golos, an independent election monitoring group that receives the bulk of its funding from USAid and was key in exposing electoral fraud in a December parliamentary vote that helped bring tens of thousands of protesters on to the streets.The foreign ministry also expressed its displeasure with the agency's work in the troubled North Caucasus, a region still wracked by the remnants of a violent Islamist insurgency. \"USAid's activity in the Russian regions, especially the North Caucasus, prompted serious questions, which we warned our American colleagues about repeatedly,\" the statement said.USAid has been operating in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse, funding groups that have received little or no government support, including medical NGOs devoted to fighting HIV/Aids and tuberculosis and various environmental groups. Yet the bulk of its funding goes to civil society groups focused on building up democracy and human rights in the country, including Golos, human rights NGO Memorial and corruption watchdog Transparency International.Putin has repeatedly criticised groups that receive foreign funding and has accused opposition protesters of acting on orders from Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. The Russian parliament passed a law this summer obliging NGOs that receive foreign grants to publicly brand themselves \"foreign agents\", a term reminiscent of the spy terminology used during the cold war.Grigory Melkonyants, the deputy director of Golos, said it was \"practically impossible\" to get funding from within Russia. \"Supporting human rights \u2013 be it for prisoners, or election monitoring, or anything \u2013 is a very sharp question for our current leadership. Business doesn't want to risk putting money into this,\" he said.Putin has taken great pains to convince the wider Russian population that any criticism of his government is a foreign plot. Russian officials and media have also accused the US of being behind the Arab spring uprisings, including in Egypt, where USAid came under pressure in the wake of Egypt's uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak.The move against USAid was announced by the state department on Tuesday and official state media in Russia remained silent on the issue on Wednesday. An official inside the Obama administration vowed that the US would find ways to continue to fund civil society groups, potentially paving the way for a long stand-off.The Russian government brought immense pressure against the British Council in the wake of the murder of dissident Alexander Litvinenko in London in late 2006 in a tussle that lasted for more than a year.The foreign ministry also said its decision to shut USAid was prompted by the \"maturity\" of its civil society. \"Russian civil society has become entirely mature and does not need 'external leadership',\" it said.Government critics said the move was the latest attempt to put pressure on the opposition. In the past few months, charges have been brought against more than a dozen protesters as well as opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Opposition MP Gennady Gudkov was stripped of his mandate last week. A series of laws that increase fines for protesting and slander have been passed, as well as a bill that critics fear will tighten the government's control over the internet.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "Alexei Navalny", "Aid", "Governance", "Global development", "USAid"], "title": "USAid covertly influencing political processes, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-07-24T14:17:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Since the company launched in 2010, we've been providing Russian language training for businesses and individuals. With the owner's background in linguistics and business development, in autumn 2011 it was the right time to offer a new service to the clients \u2013 business consulting for organisations looking for expansion in Russia.At that point we could clearly demonstrate our clients' satisfaction in our Russian language tuition and our owner's success stories as a business development professional in Russia and the UK.We were given a lead to an Asian university struggling to find top-ranked Russian partner universities to establish student exchange programmes and top-ranked schools to recruit students from. We submitted a proposal and successfully defended our case in a series of online meetings and emails.From December 2011 we prepared several reports on the Russian education system and a list of universities consolidating the different ranking systems (there is no common league in Russia). We contacted the best four universities and scheduled meetings with the vice-chancellors' offices of three of them. We also identified and contacted top-ranked schools.Alongside this, we coordinated the logistics of the visit to Moscow and St Petersburg, and in April 2012, the visit to Russia took place.The work resulted in seven Russian institutions agreeing to partner and cooperate with our client. Currently the work is under way to sign the necessary contracts and prepare further visits to Russia in order to enhance these relations and find some more partnering institutions.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter on Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice exchange", "Best practice: Winning new business"], "title": "Winning new business: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-07-16T07:04:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "New Russian laws are aimed at making defamation a criminal offence and giving the authorities the power to block websites. They are now awaiting President Vladimir Putin's signatureThe defamation bill, as approved by the state duma, would allow judges to levy fines up to 5m rubles (\u00a3100,000). An initial proposal to jail offenders was dropped.The New York-based press freedom watchdog, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), says the law \"demonstrates just how much Russia is diverging from accepted international norms of human rights.\"The internet bill will allow a new agency to create a blacklist of websites. Its existence contradicts previous claims by the prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, that Russia's uncensored internet is proof of the country's respect for a free press.CPJ comments: \"That Russia will so quickly abandon that standard shows how fragile its respect can be.\"Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Russia", "Media law", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Russia to make libel a criminal offence"},{"date": "2012-07-09T22:42:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Floods do not have to be political disasters. Gerhard Schr\u00f6der's response when the Elbe burst its banks reversed a federal election in 2002 that he was predicted to lose. The floods of Gloucestershire established Gordon Brown's reputation as a competent leader in 2007, until he himself sabotaged it. But disasters occupy a place apart in Russia. It is not just that major incidents such as aeroplane crashes, forest fires, gas explosions and roof collapses occur regularly. It is also that they hit a live political nerve. Survivors do not see themselves exclusively as victims of fate. They also see themselves as victims of their state. There is so little trust between the two, and no independent institutions to cushion the shock, that disaster presents a surer challenge to the man at the top than many a demonstration.Vladimir Putin moved swiftly on Saturday to show he was in charge of the rescue operation after a flash flood swept at least 171 people away in the town of Krymsk in southern Russia, submerging thousands of houses the night before. He and the regional governor travelled up and down the disaster zone by helicopter and minibus, and Mr Putin ordered an inquiry into why warnings were not given and who should have given them. \"I ask you to co-operate,\" he told a meeting of emergency officials in the town. Neither the footage of Mr Putin demanding answers nor the postmen stuffing envelopes of cash into householders' hands will be anything like enough.Whether or not it turns out to be the case that the wall of water which swept through the town came from a nearby reservoir whose gates were temporarily opened (this was denied yesterday by emergencies minister Vladimir Puchkov), or that it was unloaded on Krymsk to save lucrative oil installations in the nearby port of Novorossiysk, the truth will have a hard time making itself heard. The working assumption is that power is theft and that when its venal rulers are not actively thieving they are passive connivers in the collapse of the state. So often accused from afar of being the strongman of a strong state, Mr Putin, as viewed from Krymsk and many other disaster zones like it, is the exact opposite \u2013 a weak man presiding over a collapsing state, one hard put to deliver the bare minimum of emergency services.Mr Putin cannot be blamed for everything that goes wrong in Russia. He can, however, reflect on one aspect of this blame game. Each time a disaster strikes, Mr Putin finds that nothing stands between him and the outraged victim. That is a consequence of years of \"manual control\", years of lack of investment in infrastructure, and the vertical structure of directly appointed officials, which is now buckling under the weight of its own ineptitude. That is by design, and it is a rotten one.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment"], "title": "Russia: government and other national disasters  | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-07-02T12:07:31Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian NGOs that receive funding from abroad will have to register as \"foreign agents\" and undergo extra checks under a new bill that critics warn is part of a crackdown on independent activists.The bill, backed by the ruling United Russia party, would require foreign-funded NGOs involved in political activities to tag all publications and websites with the label \"foreign agent\".They would have to undergo an annual financial audit and issue biannual reports on their activities. Individuals in breach of the law would face up to three years in prison and fines of up to 300,000 roubles (\u00a35,850), and their organisations could be fined up to 1m roubles.A video in support of the bill says: \"You have the right to know who is trying to influence your opinion. Our country must have an opposition, but if it is protecting foreign interests, you have the right to know that.\"The bill was put forward by the United Russia Duma deputy Alexander Sidyakin. Earlier this year he sponsored a bill that was passed by the Duma to drastically increase fines for illegal protests, as the Kremlin attempted to put down demonstrations against Vladimir Putin that have drawn tens of thousands on to the streets of Moscow. Putin has repeatedly blamed the mass opposition on the US state department.Many of Russia's most prominent NGOs, including the corruption watchdog Transparency International, the election monitor Golos and the environmental group Greenpeace Russia, rely on foreign grants to operate in a country where the government often views them as enemies.Grigory Melkonyants, deputy head of Golos, said: \"They're passing this law to complicate the lives of NGOs or completely stop our financing.\" Golos helped expose the electoral fraud that marred Russia's recent parliamentary and presidential elections, and has already been the target of a mass discreditation campaign.Supporters of the law have likened it to similar legislation in the US that requires lobbyists employed by foreign governments to reveal their financing. Critics worry that it could be applied selectively in a country lacking rule of law.Melkonyants noted that the bill did not include a definition of political activity, meaning it could be applied far and wide. \"Political activity means wanting to come to power \u2013 no human rights groups or environmental groups want to come to power. Such a wide formulation of this law is very aggressive,\" he said.Golos relies on private donations as well as grants from several foreign governments. Melkonyants said finding sponsors among wealthy individuals or businesses inside Russia had become impossible since the arrest of the former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky in 2003, which was partly seen as punishment for his funding of opposition and democracy activists.A source inside the Kremlin said on Sunday that about 1,000 of the 230,000 NGOs operating in Russia were likely to fall under the restrictions. The Duma is expected to begin considering the bill on Friday.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia plans to register 'foreign agent' NGOs"},{"date": "2012-08-23T14:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: http://www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Russia Local Ltd helps British businesses expand into Russia. However, we have recently exported our services to Russia itself - attracting clients who wish to export back here in the UK. I increased my business' exposure in Russia by writing blog posts for the company website of a leading Russian logistics firm. I made this contact completely by chance: my mother met the company's vice-director on a trip to Finland! Within the course of a week, the blog brought me several enquiries from potential customers. They are all Russian businesses looking into going global, and London might well be their gateway to the world. After writing these blog posts, I was approached to write another article for a business magazine in Moscow which generated further publicity for Russia Local Ltd. I am always happy to write and talk about my business experience to encourage more people to become entrepreneurs and try new markets. Since gaining new clients in Russia, I will be able to grow my business in two directions rather than just one - and double in size. So what would be my main tip for fellow entrepreneurs? Well, always tell your mum what you're doing. And on a serious note, be open to everything.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter our Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice: Exporting", "Best practice exchange"], "title": "Exporting: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-09-19T11:58:28Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has accused the US of using its aid agency in Moscow to covertly influence the country's politics and elections, explaining its decision to expel the mission amid a wider crackdown on the opposition movement.The Russian government has given the US agency for international development (USAid) until 1 October to cease all operations in the country. The agency helps fund a number of pro-democracy and human rights groups that have provoked the Kremlin's wrath amid an unprecedented opposition movement against the Russian president, Vladimir Putin.In an uncharacteristically blunt statement, the Russian foreign ministry said that the decision to shut USAid was taken primarily because the agency's work \"does not always correspond to [its] stated goals\".\"This means attempts to exert influence, via the distribution of grants, upon political processes, including elections of various levels and institutions of civil society,\" it said.Putin has accused the US state department of orchestrating the mass protests that have swept Moscow since he announced his intention to run for the presidency again late last year. A main target of his ire has been Golos, an independent election monitoring group that receives the bulk of its funding from USAid and was key in exposing electoral fraud in a December parliamentary vote that helped bring tens of thousands of protesters on to the streets.The foreign ministry also expressed its displeasure with the agency's work in the troubled North Caucasus, a region still wracked by the remnants of a violent Islamist insurgency. \"USAid's activity in the Russian regions, especially the North Caucasus, prompted serious questions, which we warned our American colleagues about repeatedly,\" the statement said.USAid has been operating in Russia since the Soviet Union's collapse, funding groups that have received little or no government support, including medical NGOs devoted to fighting HIV/Aids and tuberculosis and various environmental groups. Yet the bulk of its funding goes to civil society groups focused on building up democracy and human rights in the country, including Golos, human rights NGO Memorial and corruption watchdog Transparency International.Putin has repeatedly criticised groups that receive foreign funding and has accused opposition protesters of acting on orders from Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state. The Russian parliament passed a law this summer obliging NGOs that receive foreign grants to publicly brand themselves \"foreign agents\", a term reminiscent of the spy terminology used during the cold war.Grigory Melkonyants, the deputy director of Golos, said it was \"practically impossible\" to get funding from within Russia. \"Supporting human rights \u2013 be it for prisoners, or election monitoring, or anything \u2013 is a very sharp question for our current leadership. Business doesn't want to risk putting money into this,\" he said.Putin has taken great pains to convince the wider Russian population that any criticism of his government is a foreign plot. Russian officials and media have also accused the US of being behind the Arab spring uprisings, including in Egypt, where USAid came under pressure in the wake of Egypt's uprising against former president Hosni Mubarak.The move against USAid was announced by the state department on Tuesday and official state media in Russia remained silent on the issue on Wednesday. An official inside the Obama administration vowed that the US would find ways to continue to fund civil society groups, potentially paving the way for a long stand-off.The Russian government brought immense pressure against the British Council in the wake of the murder of dissident Alexander Litvinenko in London in late 2006 in a tussle that lasted for more than a year.The foreign ministry also said its decision to shut USAid was prompted by the \"maturity\" of its civil society. \"Russian civil society has become entirely mature and does not need 'external leadership',\" it said.Government critics said the move was the latest attempt to put pressure on the opposition. In the past few months, charges have been brought against more than a dozen protesters as well as opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Opposition MP Gennady Gudkov was stripped of his mandate last week. A series of laws that increase fines for protesting and slander have been passed, as well as a bill that critics fear will tighten the government's control over the internet.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "Alexei Navalny", "Aid", "Governance", "Global development", "USAid"], "title": "USAid covertly influencing political processes, says Russia"},{"date": "2012-07-24T14:17:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Name: Russia Local LtdCity: LondonWebsite: www.russialocal.co.uk/en/Since the company launched in 2010, we've been providing Russian language training for businesses and individuals. With the owner's background in linguistics and business development, in autumn 2011 it was the right time to offer a new service to the clients \u2013 business consulting for organisations looking for expansion in Russia.At that point we could clearly demonstrate our clients' satisfaction in our Russian language tuition and our owner's success stories as a business development professional in Russia and the UK.We were given a lead to an Asian university struggling to find top-ranked Russian partner universities to establish student exchange programmes and top-ranked schools to recruit students from. We submitted a proposal and successfully defended our case in a series of online meetings and emails.From December 2011 we prepared several reports on the Russian education system and a list of universities consolidating the different ranking systems (there is no common league in Russia). We contacted the best four universities and scheduled meetings with the vice-chancellors' offices of three of them. We also identified and contacted top-ranked schools.Alongside this, we coordinated the logistics of the visit to Moscow and St Petersburg, and in April 2012, the visit to Russia took place.The work resulted in seven Russian institutions agreeing to partner and cooperate with our client. Currently the work is under way to sign the necessary contracts and prepare further visits to Russia in order to enhance these relations and find some more partnering institutions.Ignaty Dyakov is the director of Russia Local LtdFind out how you can enter on Best Practice Exchange here. All entries that meet the criteria are published online.", "tags": ["Best practice exchange", "Best practice: Winning new business"], "title": "Winning new business: Russia Local Ltd"},{"date": "2012-07-16T07:04:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "New Russian laws are aimed at making defamation a criminal offence and giving the authorities the power to block websites. They are now awaiting President Vladimir Putin's signatureThe defamation bill, as approved by the state duma, would allow judges to levy fines up to 5m rubles (\u00a3100,000). An initial proposal to jail offenders was dropped.The New York-based press freedom watchdog, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), says the law \"demonstrates just how much Russia is diverging from accepted international norms of human rights.\"The internet bill will allow a new agency to create a blacklist of websites. Its existence contradicts previous claims by the prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, that Russia's uncensored internet is proof of the country's respect for a free press.CPJ comments: \"That Russia will so quickly abandon that standard shows how fragile its respect can be.\"Source: CPJ", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Russia", "Media law", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev"], "title": "Russia to make libel a criminal offence"},{"date": "2012-07-09T22:42:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Floods do not have to be political disasters. Gerhard Schr\u00f6der's response when the Elbe burst its banks reversed a federal election in 2002 that he was predicted to lose. The floods of Gloucestershire established Gordon Brown's reputation as a competent leader in 2007, until he himself sabotaged it. But disasters occupy a place apart in Russia. It is not just that major incidents such as aeroplane crashes, forest fires, gas explosions and roof collapses occur regularly. It is also that they hit a live political nerve. Survivors do not see themselves exclusively as victims of fate. They also see themselves as victims of their state. There is so little trust between the two, and no independent institutions to cushion the shock, that disaster presents a surer challenge to the man at the top than many a demonstration.Vladimir Putin moved swiftly on Saturday to show he was in charge of the rescue operation after a flash flood swept at least 171 people away in the town of Krymsk in southern Russia, submerging thousands of houses the night before. He and the regional governor travelled up and down the disaster zone by helicopter and minibus, and Mr Putin ordered an inquiry into why warnings were not given and who should have given them. \"I ask you to co-operate,\" he told a meeting of emergency officials in the town. Neither the footage of Mr Putin demanding answers nor the postmen stuffing envelopes of cash into householders' hands will be anything like enough.Whether or not it turns out to be the case that the wall of water which swept through the town came from a nearby reservoir whose gates were temporarily opened (this was denied yesterday by emergencies minister Vladimir Puchkov), or that it was unloaded on Krymsk to save lucrative oil installations in the nearby port of Novorossiysk, the truth will have a hard time making itself heard. The working assumption is that power is theft and that when its venal rulers are not actively thieving they are passive connivers in the collapse of the state. So often accused from afar of being the strongman of a strong state, Mr Putin, as viewed from Krymsk and many other disaster zones like it, is the exact opposite \u2013 a weak man presiding over a collapsing state, one hard put to deliver the bare minimum of emergency services.Mr Putin cannot be blamed for everything that goes wrong in Russia. He can, however, reflect on one aspect of this blame game. Each time a disaster strikes, Mr Putin finds that nothing stands between him and the outraged victim. That is a consequence of years of \"manual control\", years of lack of investment in infrastructure, and the vertical structure of directly appointed officials, which is now buckling under the weight of its own ineptitude. That is by design, and it is a rotten one.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Flooding", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment"], "title": "Russia: government and other national disasters  | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-07-02T12:07:31Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian NGOs that receive funding from abroad will have to register as \"foreign agents\" and undergo extra checks under a new bill that critics warn is part of a crackdown on independent activists.The bill, backed by the ruling United Russia party, would require foreign-funded NGOs involved in political activities to tag all publications and websites with the label \"foreign agent\".They would have to undergo an annual financial audit and issue biannual reports on their activities. Individuals in breach of the law would face up to three years in prison and fines of up to 300,000 roubles (\u00a35,850), and their organisations could be fined up to 1m roubles.A video in support of the bill says: \"You have the right to know who is trying to influence your opinion. Our country must have an opposition, but if it is protecting foreign interests, you have the right to know that.\"The bill was put forward by the United Russia Duma deputy Alexander Sidyakin. Earlier this year he sponsored a bill that was passed by the Duma to drastically increase fines for illegal protests, as the Kremlin attempted to put down demonstrations against Vladimir Putin that have drawn tens of thousands on to the streets of Moscow. Putin has repeatedly blamed the mass opposition on the US state department.Many of Russia's most prominent NGOs, including the corruption watchdog Transparency International, the election monitor Golos and the environmental group Greenpeace Russia, rely on foreign grants to operate in a country where the government often views them as enemies.Grigory Melkonyants, deputy head of Golos, said: \"They're passing this law to complicate the lives of NGOs or completely stop our financing.\" Golos helped expose the electoral fraud that marred Russia's recent parliamentary and presidential elections, and has already been the target of a mass discreditation campaign.Supporters of the law have likened it to similar legislation in the US that requires lobbyists employed by foreign governments to reveal their financing. Critics worry that it could be applied selectively in a country lacking rule of law.Melkonyants noted that the bill did not include a definition of political activity, meaning it could be applied far and wide. \"Political activity means wanting to come to power \u2013 no human rights groups or environmental groups want to come to power. Such a wide formulation of this law is very aggressive,\" he said.Golos relies on private donations as well as grants from several foreign governments. Melkonyants said finding sponsors among wealthy individuals or businesses inside Russia had become impossible since the arrest of the former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky in 2003, which was partly seen as punishment for his funding of opposition and democracy activists.A source inside the Kremlin said on Sunday that about 1,000 of the 230,000 NGOs operating in Russia were likely to fall under the restrictions. The Duma is expected to begin considering the bill on Friday.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia plans to register 'foreign agent' NGOs"},{"date": "2012-09-26T14:49:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "One year after he punched a businessman in the face live on TV, Russian billionaire Alexander Lebedev has been charged with hooliganism and battery in a case he called politically motivated.The outspoken owner of London's Evening Standard and the Independent could face up to five years in prison if found guilty. Lebedev said the move to charge him was designed to silence a tycoon who has become increasingly critical of the rampant corruption of the regime of Vladimir Putin and its powerful security services.Prosecutors opened an investigation into Lebedev nearly one year ago after he punched Sergei Polonsky, a property developer, during the filming of a television programme for the state-run channel NTV. In a heated discussion on the financial crisis, Lebedev, a 52-year-old former KGB agent, jumped out of his chair and flew at Polonsky, knocking him to the ground. Lebedev insisted he was provoked. \"I think it was a trap from the beginning,\" he told the Guardian.The charges against Lebedev come amidst a wider crackdown as Putin attempts to defuse the growing opposition against him.Lebedev is part owner, alongside former Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev, of Novaya Gazeta, the country's leading opposition and investigative newspaper. He has also recently aligned himself with Alexey Navalny, the de facto leader of Russia's protest movement and a prominent anti-corruption crusader.\"My father has been targeted because of his determination to fight against corruption and to be a crusader for democracy in a country where this has not always been welcome,\" Lebedev's son Evgeny, chairman of his UK media holdings, said in a statement.The elder Lebedev said he had long been the target of the authorities' ire but attempts to pressure him had recently increased. Lebedev's National Reserve Bank is under investigation after being raided by masked armed men, and he insists video and audio surveillance of his homes and businesses have been boosted, while a sex tape was leaked onto the internet this summer.\"They are hoping I will leave the country,\" Lebedev said. \"It's a standard procedure: first they go against your business, then second is a smear campaign and third is the most threatening weapon \u2013 first the threat of prison and then, if you don't emigrate, you go to trial on some fabricated case.\"The hooliganism charge against Lebedev is the same one levelled against the anti-Kremlin punk band Pussy Riot, three of whose members have been jailed for two years after being found guilty of \"hooliganism motivated by religious hatred\" for performing an anti-Putin song in a Moscow cathedral. The criminal code article levied against the band includes \"political, ideological, racial, ethnic or religious hatred\". Lebedev has been charged with \"hooliganism motivated by political hatred\", according to a copy of the charges the tycoon posted on his website.\"I'm not a politician, [Polonsky] isn't a politician \u2013 what is political hatred?\" Lebedev said, calling the charge \"complete nonsense\".Lebedev insisted he was not funding the opposition that emerged in Russia after Putin announced his intention to return to the presidency late last year. But his National Reserve Bank has agreed to put out a debit card that will see a part of all expenditures donated to Navalny's anti-corruption project, RosPil. Navalny has also recently taken a seat on the board of Aeroflot, in which Lebedev owns a 15% stake. Navalny has been charged with economic crimes and faces up to 10 years in prison if found guilty.Yet Lebedev pointed to his ownership of Novaya Gazeta, which has seen several of its journalists killed for their hard-hitting investigative reporting into corruption and human rights abuses, as the reason for the campaign against him.When asked if he thought Putin had been directly involved in his case, he declined to point directly point the finger but said: \"They definitely know everything. There is no possibility to go behind somebody's back. The system is tightly controlled.\"The investigation into Lebedev's punch-up was opened days after Putin publicly called the incident \"hooliganism\".Oligarchs in Russia were sent a strong signal not to dabble in politics with the 2003 arrest of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, once Russia's richest man as the head of the oil company Yukos, now bankrupted. Khodorkovsky was jailed on charges of fraud and tax evasion in a case government critics say was launched to punish him for funding the Russian opposition without Kremlin approval.Lebedev acknowledged that he could fall prey to Russia's notoriously politicised justice system. \"This is not a case where law, rule of law, prevails,\" he said. Asked if he was ready to go to prison, he said: \"I don't think anyone can be ready for that, especially someone with a family\".Polonsky, a formerly successful property developer who suffered greatly during the financial crisis of 2008, could not be reached for comment. Russian media reported he was in Cambodia and on the verge of selling his heavily indebted business. He had tried to reach an out of court settlement with Lebedev, the media tycoon said.Lebedev's laywer, Henry Reznik, said the charges were designed to sow fear. They come as the Russian parliament debates a host of new laws \u2013 including fines for treason and insulting religious feelings \u2013 that critics say are designed to clamp down on the growing opposition. The parliament has already passed a raft of new laws targeting illegal protests, NGOs and the internet. An opposition deputy, Gennady Gudkov, has been stripped of his mandate, and more than a dozen people face criminal charges for a protest that turned violent in May.Lebedev declined to comment directly on why the charges were coming now, but noted that he had been co-owned of Novaya Gazeta for seven years. \"Why would they tolerate it for so long? Maybe something happened this year.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Alexander Lebedev", "World news", "Media"], "title": "Alexander Lebedev charged with hooliganism and battery in Russia"},{"date": "2012-12-17T14:40:13Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The apocalypse is surely near when Ramzan Kadyrov emerges as the voice of reason.The ruthless leader of Chechnya is among dozens of Russians officials, priests, doctors and psychiatrists aiming to calm an anxious populace frantically preparing for the end of the world later this week.\"People are buying candles saying the end of the world is coming,\" Kadyrov said in comments published on his official website last week. \"Does no one realise that once the end of the world comes, candles won't help them?\"For more than a month, Russians around the country have been buying up candles and matches, salt and torches in an effort to outsmart the apocalypse some believe will come when the Mayan calendar runs out on Friday.In the coalmining town of Novokuznetsk, shelves nearly emptied of salt stocks last month as the city's residents prepared to ride through the end of the world. \"60 tonnes were bought in one week,\" Yelena Zuyeva, a city official, said last week in comments carried on the local administration's website. \"Today all trade companies are working and are ready for any level for consumer activity.\"Online forums have been buzzing with people exchanging tips on what to eat after the entire human population is wiped out on Friday. \"If I'm not mistaken, Russia makes all sorts of dehydrated products that are rich in all kinds of vitamins,\" a user named Yelena Portnenkova wrote on a forum called \"How to live? What to eat?\" on VKontakte, the Russian version of Facebook. \"Yet filling a garage with stocks of food is not just pointless, but dangerous. If the apocalypse comes, then crowds of hungry, angry, terrified and horrified people will sweep into your garage just because they suspect they might find something edible.\"Government officials have been called upon to calm fears. Vladimir Puchkov, Russia's emergency situations minister, urged Russians to call his ministry's hotline if they had any fears. His deputy, Sergei Anikeyev, added: \"We don't believe in the 'end of the world' fable,\" adding hastily: \"But we're ready to help people with any emergency situation.\"With the end of the world just days away, Russians have moved from buying stocks to thinking long and hard about where to be when the lights go off. In Moscow, an underground bunker built during the second world war for the Soviet dictator Josef Stalin has offered its services: \"We invite you to survive the apocalypse on 21 December in Bunker-42 on Taganka at 65 metres underground!\" a note written in ominous red on its website cheerily reads.Alexander Kolomeyets, the deputy head of Russia's Association of Independent Psychiatrists, lamented the apocalypse-mania that has gripped his country. \"There are people who are prone to mental epidemics and I think that most of them are in our country,\" Kolomeyets said in an interview with local media in the far eastern city of Khabarovsk.\"What's happening in our country can be a lot scarier than the end of the world \u2013 so any negative information sticks. The more primitive the society, the stronger it lends itself to psychological epidemics. I think in this case our country isn't very civilised.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Mayan apocalypse"], "title": "Mayan apocalypse mania grips Russia"},{"date": "2012-12-17T14:40:13Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The apocalypse is surely near when Ramzan Kadyrov emerges as the voice of reason.The ruthless leader of Chechnya is among dozens of Russians officials, priests, doctors and psychiatrists aiming to calm an anxious populace frantically preparing for the end of the world later this week.\"People are buying candles saying the end of the world is coming,\" Kadyrov said in comments published on his official website last week. \"Does no one realise that once the end of the world comes, candles won't help them?\"For more than a month, Russians around the country have been buying up candles and matches, salt and torches in an effort to outsmart the apocalypse some believe will come when the Mayan calendar runs out on Friday.In the coalmining town of Novokuznetsk, shelves nearly emptied of salt stocks last month as the city's residents prepared to ride through the end of the world. \"60 tonnes were bought in one week,\" Yelena Zuyeva, a city official, said last week in comments carried on the local administration's website. \"Today all trade companies are working and are ready for any level for consumer activity.\"Online forums have been buzzing with people exchanging tips on what to eat after the entire human population is wiped out on Friday. \"If I'm not mistaken, Russia makes all sorts of dehydrated products that are rich in all kinds of vitamins,\" a user named Yelena Portnenkova wrote on a forum called \"How to live? What to eat?\" on VKontakte, the Russian version of Facebook. \"Yet filling a garage with stocks of food is not just pointless, but dangerous. If the apocalypse comes, then crowds of hungry, angry, terrified and horrified people will sweep into your garage just because they suspect they might find something edible.\"Government officials have been called upon to calm fears. Vladimir Puchkov, Russia's emergency situations minister, urged Russians to call his ministry's hotline if they had any fears. His deputy, Sergei Anikeyev, added: \"We don't believe in the 'end of the world' fable,\" adding hastily: \"But we're ready to help people with any emergency situation.\"With the end of the world just days away, Russians have moved from buying stocks to thinking long and hard about where to be when the lights go off. In Moscow, an underground bunker built during the second world war for the Soviet dictator Josef Stalin has offered its services: \"We invite you to survive the apocalypse on 21 December in Bunker-42 on Taganka at 65 metres underground!\" a note written in ominous red on its website cheerily reads.Alexander Kolomeyets, the deputy head of Russia's Association of Independent Psychiatrists, lamented the apocalypse-mania that has gripped his country. \"There are people who are prone to mental epidemics and I think that most of them are in our country,\" Kolomeyets said in an interview with local media in the far eastern city of Khabarovsk.\"What's happening in our country can be a lot scarier than the end of the world \u2013 so any negative information sticks. The more primitive the society, the stronger it lends itself to psychological epidemics. I think in this case our country isn't very civilised.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Mayan apocalypse"], "title": "Mayan apocalypse mania grips Russia"},{"date": "2012-12-10T21:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Your article (Revealed: how the Kremlin got its diplomats to woo the Tories, 1 December) links the activities of Conservative Friends of Russia with Conservative MPs in the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe. As the Conservative leader in Strasbourg, I can assure you that there is no connection. The report says Sergey Nalobin and Sergei Cristo were instructed by Moscow to deepen co-operation between Conservative and United Russia MPs in the Council of Europe. They have been spectacularly unsuccessful as I've had no contact with either.At the most recent debate in October on Russia in Strasbourg I spoke on behalf of the European Democrat Group in support of the resolution which was highly critical of Russia's human rights record. The longer online version of your report also suggests we did not support the report on the Russia-Georgia conflict in 2008. That is simply not true. There were heated discussions with Russian colleagues on this subject in group meetings, but I spoke and voted for the report, which was again highly critical of Russia. It is also simply not true that Conservatives in Strasbourg have blocked the Sergei Magnitsky campaign. I have advised the campaign and supported the reference of the case to the monitoring committee of the assembly. I believe the death of Magnitsky was a gross violation of human rights and demonstrated a scant regard for the rule of law.If Russia were excluded from the Council of Europe we would have no leverage over its actions. Russia is legally committed to meet its obligations under the European convention on human rights. Its citizens can, and do, seek redress at the European court of human rights and its government is obliged to abide by the court's judgments. In the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, dialogue with Russian MPs is essential if we are to secure democratic values, human rights and a respect for the rule of law in that country. Progress is being made, but there is still a long way to go.Robert Walter MP Leader, UK delegation; chairman, EDG; vice-president, parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "Law", "Council of Europe", "European court of human rights"], "title": "Letters: Conservative MPs' dialogue with Russia"},{"date": "2012-12-17T14:40:13Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The apocalypse is surely near when Ramzan Kadyrov emerges as the voice of reason.The ruthless leader of Chechnya is among dozens of Russians officials, priests, doctors and psychiatrists aiming to calm an anxious populace frantically preparing for the end of the world later this week.\"People are buying candles saying the end of the world is coming,\" Kadyrov said in comments published on his official website last week. \"Does no one realise that once the end of the world comes, candles won't help them?\"For more than a month, Russians around the country have been buying up candles and matches, salt and torches in an effort to outsmart the apocalypse some believe will come when the Mayan calendar runs out on Friday.In the coalmining town of Novokuznetsk, shelves nearly emptied of salt stocks last month as the city's residents prepared to ride through the end of the world. \"60 tonnes were bought in one week,\" Yelena Zuyeva, a city official, said last week in comments carried on the local administration's website. \"Today all trade companies are working and are ready for any level for consumer activity.\"Online forums have been buzzing with people exchanging tips on what to eat after the entire human population is wiped out on Friday. \"If I'm not mistaken, Russia makes all sorts of dehydrated products that are rich in all kinds of vitamins,\" a user named Yelena Portnenkova wrote on a forum called \"How to live? What to eat?\" on VKontakte, the Russian version of Facebook. \"Yet filling a garage with stocks of food is not just pointless, but dangerous. If the apocalypse comes, then crowds of hungry, angry, terrified and horrified people will sweep into your garage just because they suspect they might find something edible.\"Government officials have been called upon to calm fears. Vladimir Puchkov, Russia's emergency situations minister, urged Russians to call his ministry's hotline if they had any fears. His deputy, Sergei Anikeyev, added: \"We don't believe in the 'end of the world' fable,\" adding hastily: \"But we're ready to help people with any emergency situation.\"With the end of the world just days away, Russians have moved from buying stocks to thinking long and hard about where to be when the lights go off. In Moscow, an underground bunker built during the second world war for the Soviet dictator Josef Stalin has offered its services: \"We invite you to survive the apocalypse on 21 December in Bunker-42 on Taganka at 65 metres underground!\" a note written in ominous red on its website cheerily reads.Alexander Kolomeyets, the deputy head of Russia's Association of Independent Psychiatrists, lamented the apocalypse-mania that has gripped his country. \"There are people who are prone to mental epidemics and I think that most of them are in our country,\" Kolomeyets said in an interview with local media in the far eastern city of Khabarovsk.\"What's happening in our country can be a lot scarier than the end of the world \u2013 so any negative information sticks. The more primitive the society, the stronger it lends itself to psychological epidemics. I think in this case our country isn't very civilised.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Mayan apocalypse"], "title": "Mayan apocalypse mania grips Russia"},{"date": "2012-12-10T21:00:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Your article (Revealed: how the Kremlin got its diplomats to woo the Tories, 1 December) links the activities of Conservative Friends of Russia with Conservative MPs in the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe. As the Conservative leader in Strasbourg, I can assure you that there is no connection. The report says Sergey Nalobin and Sergei Cristo were instructed by Moscow to deepen co-operation between Conservative and United Russia MPs in the Council of Europe. They have been spectacularly unsuccessful as I've had no contact with either.At the most recent debate in October on Russia in Strasbourg I spoke on behalf of the European Democrat Group in support of the resolution which was highly critical of Russia's human rights record. The longer online version of your report also suggests we did not support the report on the Russia-Georgia conflict in 2008. That is simply not true. There were heated discussions with Russian colleagues on this subject in group meetings, but I spoke and voted for the report, which was again highly critical of Russia. It is also simply not true that Conservatives in Strasbourg have blocked the Sergei Magnitsky campaign. I have advised the campaign and supported the reference of the case to the monitoring committee of the assembly. I believe the death of Magnitsky was a gross violation of human rights and demonstrated a scant regard for the rule of law.If Russia were excluded from the Council of Europe we would have no leverage over its actions. Russia is legally committed to meet its obligations under the European convention on human rights. Its citizens can, and do, seek redress at the European court of human rights and its government is obliged to abide by the court's judgments. In the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe, dialogue with Russian MPs is essential if we are to secure democratic values, human rights and a respect for the rule of law in that country. Progress is being made, but there is still a long way to go.Robert Walter MP Leader, UK delegation; chairman, EDG; vice-president, parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe", "tags": ["Conservatives", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "Law", "Council of Europe", "European court of human rights"], "title": "Letters: Conservative MPs' dialogue with Russia"},{"date": "2012-10-18T14:54:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "BP paid $571m to buy a 10% stake in Sidanko, then Russia's fifth-largest oil company and part of the UNEXIM-MFK banking group controlled by oligarch Vladimir Potanin.BP established Russian joint venture, TNK-BP, as a result of the merger of Russian companies TNK, Sidanko and Onako with the majority of BP's Russian oil assets. The company was 50% owned by BP and 50% owned by a group of oilgarchs \u2013 Viktor Vekselberg, Mikhail Fridman, German Khan and Len Blavatnik \u2013 operating as the AAR group.BP is forced to suspend 148 staff in Russia in a dispute over visas a week after a police raid on Moscow offices of BP and TNK-BP.TNK-BP chief executive Bob Dudley admits disagreements with the oilgarchs.Dudley leaves Russia citing harassment after being refused a new work visa and resigns from his post in December.Shareholders finalised a deal under which BP ceded influence to AAR. Previously, half the board was appointed by BP and half by AAR.Maxim Barsky nominated as the new chief of TNK-BP.Dudley named as new boss of BP after Tony Hayward quits in the wake of Deepwater Horizon disaster.BP and Rosneft agreed to a $16bn share swap, under which they plan to jointly explore for offshore oil and gas in the Russian Arctic.The deal with Rosneft collapses after AAR wins an injunction in a court of arbitration. Subsequent attempt by Rosneft and AAR to buy out AAR's stake failed as well.Barsky quits. Mikhail Fridman, one of the four tycoons in the AAR consortium, takes the reins as an interim chief executive.BP said it would pursue a sale of its stake in TNK-BP after receiving expressions of interest. Rosneft said it is in talks with BP to buy half of TNK-BP.AAR has agreed to sell its stake to Rosneft for $28 billion, according to a source.", "tags": ["BP", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "BP in Russia: a timeline"},{"date": "2013-03-13T19:39:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The UK and Russia remain at odds over the supply of arms to Syria's opposition, with Moscow suggesting that any move by the British government to give the rebels military equipment would breach international law.The foreign secretary, William Hague, held talks in London with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in a meeting also attended by defence ministers Philip Hammond and Sergei Shoigu.Last week Hague announced that Britain was stepping up its support for Syria's opposition National Coalition and would be providing non-lethal equipment to rebel fighters. The government is inching towards arming the rebels, with David Cameron indicating on Wednesday that the UK might be prepared to bypass an EU arms embargo as events on the ground unfold.Speaking after talks with Hague, however, Lavrov said the supply of lethal weapons to the rebels would be illegal. \"International law doesn't allow, doesn't permit, the supplies of arms to non-governmental actors. It's a violation of international law,\" he claimed. Lavrov also raised the spectre of western arms falling into the hands of radical Islamist groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra, placed on a terrorist list by the US.Hammond responded: \"We can't rule out anything in future. You can be sure that any action will be legal with a strong basis in international law.\"The differences between Moscow and the west over Syria are well known. The Kremlin has supplied large amounts of heavy weaponry to the regime of President Bashar al-Assad, including attack helicopters. The UK and other EU states have backed moderate democratic forces within the Syrian opposition. Hague has promised it \"increased support\". Russia and the UK were interested in a \"political transition\" in Syria, he said, though they disagree how to get there.Wednesday's meeting amounts to a mini-thaw in relations between the Kremlin and London. It follows a series of rows over the 2006 polonium murder of the Russian intelligence officer Alexander Litvinenko and the government's failure, as Russia sees it, to extradite Russian nationals who have fled to the UK.At a joint press conference, both foreign ministers dodged the Litivnenko issue. Hague alluded to the \"one or two areas where we are known to have differences\". Lavrov said on Moscow's extradition requests \u2013 repeatedly dismissed by British judges as politically motivated \u2013 there had been \"slow progress\".On Tuesday Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent accused of Litvinenko's murder, said he would not take part in an inquest being held into Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said the hearing was \"biased\" following an application by Hague to keep secret the government's Litvinenko files. It emerged last year that at the time of his death Litvinenko had been working for the British and Spanish secret services, and was receiving regular payments from MI6. On Wednesday foreign office officials insisted Litvinenko and Russia's dismal human rights record was raised during \"substantive\" bilateral talks. Both sides appear keen to move on from the Litvinenko affair. But Hague's apparent attempt to reset relations with Russia over the past three years has attracted criticism. David Clark, chairman of the Russian Foundation, and a former aide to Robin Cook, said the gap between the two governments remained too wide for a meaningful breakthrough.He said: \"William Hague is now exploring options for providing military aid to the rebels and clearly envisages a future without President Assad as the only acceptable option, while the Russians are still determined to keep their ally in place. They have repeatedly blocked action on the UN security council that might compromise their objective.\" Clark described Hague as an \"old-fashioned rightwing foreign policy realist\". \"He sees foreign policy in terms of trade and serious powers doing business with each other.\"In Syria an EU adviser was killed on Tuesday in a rocket attack near the capital, Damascus, the 27-nation bloc confirmed.Ahmad Shihadeh, a policy officer with the EU delegation in Syria, died on Tuesday in the Damascus suburb of Daraya, where he lived, according to the office of the EU's foreign policy chief, Lady Ashton.A spokesman for Ashton said Shihadeh was Syrian, 32, and had worked for the EU for five years. It was the first death in the Syrian civil war of an EU employee. Shihadeh \"died while providing humanitarian help to the community (of Daraya)\", Ashton said. \"Ahmad was known for his courage and selflessness.\"Ashton also called for an end to the conflict: \"As we approach the second anniversary of the uprising in Syria, I call again on all sides to take urgent steps to end the violence, which has led to the deaths of some 100,000 innocent citizens and over 1 million refugees seeking shelter in neighbouring countries.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Russia", "Syria", "Foreign policy", "William Hague", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Politics"], "title": "Russia warns UK against arming Syrian rebels"},{"date": "2013-03-13T19:39:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The UK and Russia remain at odds over the supply of arms to Syria's opposition, with Moscow suggesting that any move by the British government to give the rebels military equipment would breach international law.The foreign secretary, William Hague, held talks in London with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in a meeting also attended by defence ministers Philip Hammond and Sergei Shoigu.Last week Hague announced that Britain was stepping up its support for Syria's opposition National Coalition and would be providing non-lethal equipment to rebel fighters. The government is inching towards arming the rebels, with David Cameron indicating on Wednesday that the UK might be prepared to bypass an EU arms embargo as events on the ground unfold.Speaking after talks with Hague, however, Lavrov said the supply of lethal weapons to the rebels would be illegal. \"International law doesn't allow, doesn't permit, the supplies of arms to non-governmental actors. It's a violation of international law,\" he claimed. Lavrov also raised the spectre of western arms falling into the hands of radical Islamist groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra, placed on a terrorist list by the US.Hammond responded: \"We can't rule out anything in future. You can be sure that any action will be legal with a strong basis in international law.\"The differences between Moscow and the west over Syria are well known. The Kremlin has supplied large amounts of heavy weaponry to the regime of President Bashar al-Assad, including attack helicopters. The UK and other EU states have backed moderate democratic forces within the Syrian opposition. Hague has promised it \"increased support\". Russia and the UK were interested in a \"political transition\" in Syria, he said, though they disagree how to get there.Wednesday's meeting amounts to a mini-thaw in relations between the Kremlin and London. It follows a series of rows over the 2006 polonium murder of the Russian intelligence officer Alexander Litvinenko and the government's failure, as Russia sees it, to extradite Russian nationals who have fled to the UK.At a joint press conference, both foreign ministers dodged the Litivnenko issue. Hague alluded to the \"one or two areas where we are known to have differences\". Lavrov said on Moscow's extradition requests \u2013 repeatedly dismissed by British judges as politically motivated \u2013 there had been \"slow progress\".On Tuesday Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent accused of Litvinenko's murder, said he would not take part in an inquest being held into Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said the hearing was \"biased\" following an application by Hague to keep secret the government's Litvinenko files. It emerged last year that at the time of his death Litvinenko had been working for the British and Spanish secret services, and was receiving regular payments from MI6. On Wednesday foreign office officials insisted Litvinenko and Russia's dismal human rights record was raised during \"substantive\" bilateral talks. Both sides appear keen to move on from the Litvinenko affair. But Hague's apparent attempt to reset relations with Russia over the past three years has attracted criticism. David Clark, chairman of the Russian Foundation, and a former aide to Robin Cook, said the gap between the two governments remained too wide for a meaningful breakthrough.He said: \"William Hague is now exploring options for providing military aid to the rebels and clearly envisages a future without President Assad as the only acceptable option, while the Russians are still determined to keep their ally in place. They have repeatedly blocked action on the UN security council that might compromise their objective.\" Clark described Hague as an \"old-fashioned rightwing foreign policy realist\". \"He sees foreign policy in terms of trade and serious powers doing business with each other.\"In Syria an EU adviser was killed on Tuesday in a rocket attack near the capital, Damascus, the 27-nation bloc confirmed.Ahmad Shihadeh, a policy officer with the EU delegation in Syria, died on Tuesday in the Damascus suburb of Daraya, where he lived, according to the office of the EU's foreign policy chief, Lady Ashton.A spokesman for Ashton said Shihadeh was Syrian, 32, and had worked for the EU for five years. It was the first death in the Syrian civil war of an EU employee. Shihadeh \"died while providing humanitarian help to the community (of Daraya)\", Ashton said. \"Ahmad was known for his courage and selflessness.\"Ashton also called for an end to the conflict: \"As we approach the second anniversary of the uprising in Syria, I call again on all sides to take urgent steps to end the violence, which has led to the deaths of some 100,000 innocent citizens and over 1 million refugees seeking shelter in neighbouring countries.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Russia", "Syria", "Foreign policy", "William Hague", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Politics"], "title": "Russia warns UK against arming Syrian rebels"},{"date": "2013-02-15T08:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A meteorite has flared spectacularly in the sky and exploded over theRussian region of Chelyabinsk, reportedly injuring around 400 people.Fragments of the meteor fell in a thinly populated area of the region, the emergencies ministry said in a statement.Interior ministry spokesman Vadim Kolesnikov said 102 people hadcalled for medical assistance following the incident, mostly fortreatment of injuries from glass broken by the explosions.Kolesnikov also said about 600 sq metres (6,500 sq ft) of a roof at a zinc factory had collapsed.Reports conflicted on what exactly happened in the clear skies. Emergencies ministry spokeswoman Irina Rossius told Associated Press that there was a meteor shower, but another ministry spokeswoman, Elena Smirnikh, was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying it was a single meteorite.\"It was definitely not a plane,\" an emergency official told Reuters. \"We are gathering the bits of information and have no data on the casualties so far.\"A witness in Chelyabinsk reported hearing a huge blast early in the morning and feeling a shockwave in a 19-storey building in the town centre.The sounds of car alarms and breaking windows could be heard in the area, the witness said, and mobile phones were working intermittently. \"Preliminary indications are that it was a meteorite rain,\" an emergency official told RIA-Novosti. \"We have information about a blast at 10,000-metre altitude. It is being verified.\"\"I was driving to work, it was quite dark, but it suddenly became asbright as if it was day,\" said Viktor Prokofiev, a 36-year-old resident ofYekaterinburg in the Urals mountains.\"I felt like I was blinded by headlights,\" he told Reuters.No deaths were reported but President Vladimir Putin, who was dueto host finance ministry officials from the G20 nations in Moscow, and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev were quickly informed.Amateur video broadcast on Russian television showed an objectspeeding across the sky (video) about 9:20 am local time (0320 GMT), leaving a thick white contrail and an intense flash.The emergencies ministry described Friday's events as a \"meteor showerin the form of fireballs\" and said background radiation levels werenormal. It urged residents not to panic.Chelyabinsk city authorities urged people to stay indoors unless theyneeded to pick up their children from schools and nurseries. Theysaid a blast had been heard at an altitude of 10,000 metres, apparently signalling it occurred when the meteorite entered Earth's atmosphere.In 1908 a meteorite is thought to have devastated an area of more than700 sq miles in Siberia in what became known as theTunguska event.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Space", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explosion over Russia injures hundreds"},{"date": "2013-03-13T19:39:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The UK and Russia remain at odds over the supply of arms to Syria's opposition, with Moscow suggesting that any move by the British government to give the rebels military equipment would breach international law.The foreign secretary, William Hague, held talks in London with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in a meeting also attended by defence ministers Philip Hammond and Sergei Shoigu.Last week Hague announced that Britain was stepping up its support for Syria's opposition National Coalition and would be providing non-lethal equipment to rebel fighters. The government is inching towards arming the rebels, with David Cameron indicating on Wednesday that the UK might be prepared to bypass an EU arms embargo as events on the ground unfold.Speaking after talks with Hague, however, Lavrov said the supply of lethal weapons to the rebels would be illegal. \"International law doesn't allow, doesn't permit, the supplies of arms to non-governmental actors. It's a violation of international law,\" he claimed. Lavrov also raised the spectre of western arms falling into the hands of radical Islamist groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra, placed on a terrorist list by the US.Hammond responded: \"We can't rule out anything in future. You can be sure that any action will be legal with a strong basis in international law.\"The differences between Moscow and the west over Syria are well known. The Kremlin has supplied large amounts of heavy weaponry to the regime of President Bashar al-Assad, including attack helicopters. The UK and other EU states have backed moderate democratic forces within the Syrian opposition. Hague has promised it \"increased support\". Russia and the UK were interested in a \"political transition\" in Syria, he said, though they disagree how to get there.Wednesday's meeting amounts to a mini-thaw in relations between the Kremlin and London. It follows a series of rows over the 2006 polonium murder of the Russian intelligence officer Alexander Litvinenko and the government's failure, as Russia sees it, to extradite Russian nationals who have fled to the UK.At a joint press conference, both foreign ministers dodged the Litivnenko issue. Hague alluded to the \"one or two areas where we are known to have differences\". Lavrov said on Moscow's extradition requests \u2013 repeatedly dismissed by British judges as politically motivated \u2013 there had been \"slow progress\".On Tuesday Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent accused of Litvinenko's murder, said he would not take part in an inquest being held into Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said the hearing was \"biased\" following an application by Hague to keep secret the government's Litvinenko files. It emerged last year that at the time of his death Litvinenko had been working for the British and Spanish secret services, and was receiving regular payments from MI6. On Wednesday foreign office officials insisted Litvinenko and Russia's dismal human rights record was raised during \"substantive\" bilateral talks. Both sides appear keen to move on from the Litvinenko affair. But Hague's apparent attempt to reset relations with Russia over the past three years has attracted criticism. David Clark, chairman of the Russian Foundation, and a former aide to Robin Cook, said the gap between the two governments remained too wide for a meaningful breakthrough.He said: \"William Hague is now exploring options for providing military aid to the rebels and clearly envisages a future without President Assad as the only acceptable option, while the Russians are still determined to keep their ally in place. They have repeatedly blocked action on the UN security council that might compromise their objective.\" Clark described Hague as an \"old-fashioned rightwing foreign policy realist\". \"He sees foreign policy in terms of trade and serious powers doing business with each other.\"In Syria an EU adviser was killed on Tuesday in a rocket attack near the capital, Damascus, the 27-nation bloc confirmed.Ahmad Shihadeh, a policy officer with the EU delegation in Syria, died on Tuesday in the Damascus suburb of Daraya, where he lived, according to the office of the EU's foreign policy chief, Lady Ashton.A spokesman for Ashton said Shihadeh was Syrian, 32, and had worked for the EU for five years. It was the first death in the Syrian civil war of an EU employee. Shihadeh \"died while providing humanitarian help to the community (of Daraya)\", Ashton said. \"Ahmad was known for his courage and selflessness.\"Ashton also called for an end to the conflict: \"As we approach the second anniversary of the uprising in Syria, I call again on all sides to take urgent steps to end the violence, which has led to the deaths of some 100,000 innocent citizens and over 1 million refugees seeking shelter in neighbouring countries.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Russia", "Syria", "Foreign policy", "William Hague", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Politics"], "title": "Russia warns UK against arming Syrian rebels"},{"date": "2013-02-15T08:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A meteorite has flared spectacularly in the sky and exploded over theRussian region of Chelyabinsk, reportedly injuring around 400 people.Fragments of the meteor fell in a thinly populated area of the region, the emergencies ministry said in a statement.Interior ministry spokesman Vadim Kolesnikov said 102 people hadcalled for medical assistance following the incident, mostly fortreatment of injuries from glass broken by the explosions.Kolesnikov also said about 600 sq metres (6,500 sq ft) of a roof at a zinc factory had collapsed.Reports conflicted on what exactly happened in the clear skies. Emergencies ministry spokeswoman Irina Rossius told Associated Press that there was a meteor shower, but another ministry spokeswoman, Elena Smirnikh, was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying it was a single meteorite.\"It was definitely not a plane,\" an emergency official told Reuters. \"We are gathering the bits of information and have no data on the casualties so far.\"A witness in Chelyabinsk reported hearing a huge blast early in the morning and feeling a shockwave in a 19-storey building in the town centre.The sounds of car alarms and breaking windows could be heard in the area, the witness said, and mobile phones were working intermittently. \"Preliminary indications are that it was a meteorite rain,\" an emergency official told RIA-Novosti. \"We have information about a blast at 10,000-metre altitude. It is being verified.\"\"I was driving to work, it was quite dark, but it suddenly became asbright as if it was day,\" said Viktor Prokofiev, a 36-year-old resident ofYekaterinburg in the Urals mountains.\"I felt like I was blinded by headlights,\" he told Reuters.No deaths were reported but President Vladimir Putin, who was dueto host finance ministry officials from the G20 nations in Moscow, and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev were quickly informed.Amateur video broadcast on Russian television showed an objectspeeding across the sky (video) about 9:20 am local time (0320 GMT), leaving a thick white contrail and an intense flash.The emergencies ministry described Friday's events as a \"meteor showerin the form of fireballs\" and said background radiation levels werenormal. It urged residents not to panic.Chelyabinsk city authorities urged people to stay indoors unless theyneeded to pick up their children from schools and nurseries. Theysaid a blast had been heard at an altitude of 10,000 metres, apparently signalling it occurred when the meteorite entered Earth's atmosphere.In 1908 a meteorite is thought to have devastated an area of more than700 sq miles in Siberia in what became known as theTunguska event.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Space", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explosion over Russia injures hundreds"},{"date": "2013-02-15T12:27:13Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A space rock, which the Russian Academy of Sciences estimates weighed about 10 tonnes. Videos show a bright trail streaking through the sky, which is the object burning up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere. The rock hit the atmosphere at a speed of at least 54,000km/h (33,000mph), compressing the air in its path and heating it to thousands of degrees, which gives off light. The sharp compression of the air creates a shock wave, which is heard as a sonic boom in many of the videos.Footage clearly shows a single object streaking across the sky, but it is believed the rock shattered some 18-32 miles (30-50km) above ground. Some videos show a sudden brightening as the body fragmented during its fiery passage through the atmosphere.Around 40,000 tonnes of space rocks fall to Earth every year, mostly in the form of dust and relatively small meteorites. The last time something major struck the Earth was in 1908, when an asteroid about 50 metres across exploded in the air above the Tunguska region of Siberia. It flattened forests over an area of hundreds of square miles. Friday morning's event was a tiny fraction of this magnitude. Something like this probably happens every decade but usually takes place over an unpopulated area.No one is previously recorded to have been killed by a meteorite falling from the sky. There are stories of a dog being killed in Egypt in 1911 and a boy being hit but not seriously injured in Uganda in 1992. Most of the Earth's surface is uninhabited by humans, so meteorites usually fall over desolate areas or the oceans.Astronomers love their definitions. A meteoroid is anything in orbit around the sun that is smaller than 10 metres. It becomes known as an asteroid above this size and up to about 1,000 kilometres. A meteor is a speck of dust that burns up in the atmosphere creating a shooting star. A meteorite is a larger fragment, from pebble to boulder-sized, that survives to strike the surface of the Earth.These definitions are blurring, however. Almost everyone it seems is using the word meteor to describe the object that hit Russia. Blame Sean Connery. Back in 1979, he starred in a disaster movie about an asteroid that was to strike Earth. They called the movie Meteor.The Russian meteorite hit during the daytime. The glare of the sun masked its approach, like a fighter pilot using the sun to blind an enemy to the attack. There could be thousands of asteroids that orbit closer to the sun than the Earth, approaching our planet only occasionally and always from \"out of the sun\". They are virtually impossible to spot from Earth because they are always masked by daylight. Only a space telescope could see these effectively. The European Space Agency's Gaia mission will help discover more of these asteroids.No, the Royal Astronomical Society in London and the European Space Agency in Darmstadt, Germany, both say that the approach of Friday morning's strike is unrelated to the approach of space rock 2012 DA14, which will draw extremely close to Earth on Friday night. According to Nasa's Near-Earth Object Observation Programme, an asteroid like 2012 DA14 flies this close on average only once every 40 years \u2013 although it will still be some 17,100 miles above our heads. Nevertheless, this is closer to the Earth than many artificial satellites.A recently formed working group of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space would be called into session. Known as the space mission planning advisory group, it is composed of scientists from Nasa, the European Space Agency and the world's other space agencies. The group would immediately meet to advise on the best strategy for dealing with the asteroid. It would also advise on who has the expertise to build the different parts of the necessary spacecraft, and who should pay for it. Then it would pass the decision into the hands of politicians.No. Incoming asteroids and meteoroids can come from any direction. Additionally, the Earth rotates once a day, presenting every hemisphere to the different directions of space.Friday's impact was certainly not enough to knock the Earth off its axis, nor imperil telecommunications networks. The shockwave was compressed air rather than the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) created by nuclear weapons and solar flares. Neither is there a real risk of alien death viruses. Meteorites fall to Earth all the time \u2013 none has brought space bugs yet. Although there are theories that microbes could hitch rides on space rocks, there is no incontrovertible evidence that this is a widespread phenomenon.Dr Stuart Clark writes the Across the Universe blog.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Russia", "Space", "Science", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explodes over Russia: key questions answered"},{"date": "2013-03-13T19:39:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The UK and Russia remain at odds over the supply of arms to Syria's opposition, with Moscow suggesting that any move by the British government to give the rebels military equipment would breach international law.The foreign secretary, William Hague, held talks in London with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in a meeting also attended by defence ministers Philip Hammond and Sergei Shoigu.Last week Hague announced that Britain was stepping up its support for Syria's opposition National Coalition and would be providing non-lethal equipment to rebel fighters. The government is inching towards arming the rebels, with David Cameron indicating on Wednesday that the UK might be prepared to bypass an EU arms embargo as events on the ground unfold.Speaking after talks with Hague, however, Lavrov said the supply of lethal weapons to the rebels would be illegal. \"International law doesn't allow, doesn't permit, the supplies of arms to non-governmental actors. It's a violation of international law,\" he claimed. Lavrov also raised the spectre of western arms falling into the hands of radical Islamist groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra, placed on a terrorist list by the US.Hammond responded: \"We can't rule out anything in future. You can be sure that any action will be legal with a strong basis in international law.\"The differences between Moscow and the west over Syria are well known. The Kremlin has supplied large amounts of heavy weaponry to the regime of President Bashar al-Assad, including attack helicopters. The UK and other EU states have backed moderate democratic forces within the Syrian opposition. Hague has promised it \"increased support\". Russia and the UK were interested in a \"political transition\" in Syria, he said, though they disagree how to get there.Wednesday's meeting amounts to a mini-thaw in relations between the Kremlin and London. It follows a series of rows over the 2006 polonium murder of the Russian intelligence officer Alexander Litvinenko and the government's failure, as Russia sees it, to extradite Russian nationals who have fled to the UK.At a joint press conference, both foreign ministers dodged the Litivnenko issue. Hague alluded to the \"one or two areas where we are known to have differences\". Lavrov said on Moscow's extradition requests \u2013 repeatedly dismissed by British judges as politically motivated \u2013 there had been \"slow progress\".On Tuesday Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent accused of Litvinenko's murder, said he would not take part in an inquest being held into Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said the hearing was \"biased\" following an application by Hague to keep secret the government's Litvinenko files. It emerged last year that at the time of his death Litvinenko had been working for the British and Spanish secret services, and was receiving regular payments from MI6. On Wednesday foreign office officials insisted Litvinenko and Russia's dismal human rights record was raised during \"substantive\" bilateral talks. Both sides appear keen to move on from the Litvinenko affair. But Hague's apparent attempt to reset relations with Russia over the past three years has attracted criticism. David Clark, chairman of the Russian Foundation, and a former aide to Robin Cook, said the gap between the two governments remained too wide for a meaningful breakthrough.He said: \"William Hague is now exploring options for providing military aid to the rebels and clearly envisages a future without President Assad as the only acceptable option, while the Russians are still determined to keep their ally in place. They have repeatedly blocked action on the UN security council that might compromise their objective.\" Clark described Hague as an \"old-fashioned rightwing foreign policy realist\". \"He sees foreign policy in terms of trade and serious powers doing business with each other.\"In Syria an EU adviser was killed on Tuesday in a rocket attack near the capital, Damascus, the 27-nation bloc confirmed.Ahmad Shihadeh, a policy officer with the EU delegation in Syria, died on Tuesday in the Damascus suburb of Daraya, where he lived, according to the office of the EU's foreign policy chief, Lady Ashton.A spokesman for Ashton said Shihadeh was Syrian, 32, and had worked for the EU for five years. It was the first death in the Syrian civil war of an EU employee. Shihadeh \"died while providing humanitarian help to the community (of Daraya)\", Ashton said. \"Ahmad was known for his courage and selflessness.\"Ashton also called for an end to the conflict: \"As we approach the second anniversary of the uprising in Syria, I call again on all sides to take urgent steps to end the violence, which has led to the deaths of some 100,000 innocent citizens and over 1 million refugees seeking shelter in neighbouring countries.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Russia", "Syria", "Foreign policy", "William Hague", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Politics"], "title": "Russia warns UK against arming Syrian rebels"},{"date": "2013-02-15T08:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A meteorite has flared spectacularly in the sky and exploded over theRussian region of Chelyabinsk, reportedly injuring around 400 people.Fragments of the meteor fell in a thinly populated area of the region, the emergencies ministry said in a statement.Interior ministry spokesman Vadim Kolesnikov said 102 people hadcalled for medical assistance following the incident, mostly fortreatment of injuries from glass broken by the explosions.Kolesnikov also said about 600 sq metres (6,500 sq ft) of a roof at a zinc factory had collapsed.Reports conflicted on what exactly happened in the clear skies. Emergencies ministry spokeswoman Irina Rossius told Associated Press that there was a meteor shower, but another ministry spokeswoman, Elena Smirnikh, was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying it was a single meteorite.\"It was definitely not a plane,\" an emergency official told Reuters. \"We are gathering the bits of information and have no data on the casualties so far.\"A witness in Chelyabinsk reported hearing a huge blast early in the morning and feeling a shockwave in a 19-storey building in the town centre.The sounds of car alarms and breaking windows could be heard in the area, the witness said, and mobile phones were working intermittently. \"Preliminary indications are that it was a meteorite rain,\" an emergency official told RIA-Novosti. \"We have information about a blast at 10,000-metre altitude. It is being verified.\"\"I was driving to work, it was quite dark, but it suddenly became asbright as if it was day,\" said Viktor Prokofiev, a 36-year-old resident ofYekaterinburg in the Urals mountains.\"I felt like I was blinded by headlights,\" he told Reuters.No deaths were reported but President Vladimir Putin, who was dueto host finance ministry officials from the G20 nations in Moscow, and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev were quickly informed.Amateur video broadcast on Russian television showed an objectspeeding across the sky (video) about 9:20 am local time (0320 GMT), leaving a thick white contrail and an intense flash.The emergencies ministry described Friday's events as a \"meteor showerin the form of fireballs\" and said background radiation levels werenormal. It urged residents not to panic.Chelyabinsk city authorities urged people to stay indoors unless theyneeded to pick up their children from schools and nurseries. Theysaid a blast had been heard at an altitude of 10,000 metres, apparently signalling it occurred when the meteorite entered Earth's atmosphere.In 1908 a meteorite is thought to have devastated an area of more than700 sq miles in Siberia in what became known as theTunguska event.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Space", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explosion over Russia injures hundreds"},{"date": "2013-02-15T12:27:13Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A space rock, which the Russian Academy of Sciences estimates weighed about 10 tonnes. Videos show a bright trail streaking through the sky, which is the object burning up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere. The rock hit the atmosphere at a speed of at least 54,000km/h (33,000mph), compressing the air in its path and heating it to thousands of degrees, which gives off light. The sharp compression of the air creates a shock wave, which is heard as a sonic boom in many of the videos.Footage clearly shows a single object streaking across the sky, but it is believed the rock shattered some 18-32 miles (30-50km) above ground. Some videos show a sudden brightening as the body fragmented during its fiery passage through the atmosphere.Around 40,000 tonnes of space rocks fall to Earth every year, mostly in the form of dust and relatively small meteorites. The last time something major struck the Earth was in 1908, when an asteroid about 50 metres across exploded in the air above the Tunguska region of Siberia. It flattened forests over an area of hundreds of square miles. Friday morning's event was a tiny fraction of this magnitude. Something like this probably happens every decade but usually takes place over an unpopulated area.No one is previously recorded to have been killed by a meteorite falling from the sky. There are stories of a dog being killed in Egypt in 1911 and a boy being hit but not seriously injured in Uganda in 1992. Most of the Earth's surface is uninhabited by humans, so meteorites usually fall over desolate areas or the oceans.Astronomers love their definitions. A meteoroid is anything in orbit around the sun that is smaller than 10 metres. It becomes known as an asteroid above this size and up to about 1,000 kilometres. A meteor is a speck of dust that burns up in the atmosphere creating a shooting star. A meteorite is a larger fragment, from pebble to boulder-sized, that survives to strike the surface of the Earth.These definitions are blurring, however. Almost everyone it seems is using the word meteor to describe the object that hit Russia. Blame Sean Connery. Back in 1979, he starred in a disaster movie about an asteroid that was to strike Earth. They called the movie Meteor.The Russian meteorite hit during the daytime. The glare of the sun masked its approach, like a fighter pilot using the sun to blind an enemy to the attack. There could be thousands of asteroids that orbit closer to the sun than the Earth, approaching our planet only occasionally and always from \"out of the sun\". They are virtually impossible to spot from Earth because they are always masked by daylight. Only a space telescope could see these effectively. The European Space Agency's Gaia mission will help discover more of these asteroids.No, the Royal Astronomical Society in London and the European Space Agency in Darmstadt, Germany, both say that the approach of Friday morning's strike is unrelated to the approach of space rock 2012 DA14, which will draw extremely close to Earth on Friday night. According to Nasa's Near-Earth Object Observation Programme, an asteroid like 2012 DA14 flies this close on average only once every 40 years \u2013 although it will still be some 17,100 miles above our heads. Nevertheless, this is closer to the Earth than many artificial satellites.A recently formed working group of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space would be called into session. Known as the space mission planning advisory group, it is composed of scientists from Nasa, the European Space Agency and the world's other space agencies. The group would immediately meet to advise on the best strategy for dealing with the asteroid. It would also advise on who has the expertise to build the different parts of the necessary spacecraft, and who should pay for it. Then it would pass the decision into the hands of politicians.No. Incoming asteroids and meteoroids can come from any direction. Additionally, the Earth rotates once a day, presenting every hemisphere to the different directions of space.Friday's impact was certainly not enough to knock the Earth off its axis, nor imperil telecommunications networks. The shockwave was compressed air rather than the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) created by nuclear weapons and solar flares. Neither is there a real risk of alien death viruses. Meteorites fall to Earth all the time \u2013 none has brought space bugs yet. Although there are theories that microbes could hitch rides on space rocks, there is no incontrovertible evidence that this is a widespread phenomenon.Dr Stuart Clark writes the Across the Universe blog.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Russia", "Space", "Science", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explodes over Russia: key questions answered"},{"date": "2013-02-11T10:07:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government blocked access last week to a blog-hosting site that publishes the work of two prominent independent journalists who are often critical of the Kremlin, reports Mike Rispoli.The site, LJRossia.org (LJR), was added to the country's official \"internet blacklist.\"It is described as \"a non-profit project created to support freedom of speech, civil society and encourage the free exchange of ideas.\" Two journalists who run blogs on LJR are Andrei Malgin, who has been very critical of the government, and Vladimir Pribylovsky, who has been targeted for publishing a database of government misdeeds and for disclosing official documents that expose corruption.Source: Mike Rispoli/Access", "tags": ["Media", "Censorship", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Digital media"], "title": "Russia blocks access to blog site"},{"date": "2013-03-13T19:39:05Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The UK and Russia remain at odds over the supply of arms to Syria's opposition, with Moscow suggesting that any move by the British government to give the rebels military equipment would breach international law.The foreign secretary, William Hague, held talks in London with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in a meeting also attended by defence ministers Philip Hammond and Sergei Shoigu.Last week Hague announced that Britain was stepping up its support for Syria's opposition National Coalition and would be providing non-lethal equipment to rebel fighters. The government is inching towards arming the rebels, with David Cameron indicating on Wednesday that the UK might be prepared to bypass an EU arms embargo as events on the ground unfold.Speaking after talks with Hague, however, Lavrov said the supply of lethal weapons to the rebels would be illegal. \"International law doesn't allow, doesn't permit, the supplies of arms to non-governmental actors. It's a violation of international law,\" he claimed. Lavrov also raised the spectre of western arms falling into the hands of radical Islamist groups such as Jabhat al-Nusra, placed on a terrorist list by the US.Hammond responded: \"We can't rule out anything in future. You can be sure that any action will be legal with a strong basis in international law.\"The differences between Moscow and the west over Syria are well known. The Kremlin has supplied large amounts of heavy weaponry to the regime of President Bashar al-Assad, including attack helicopters. The UK and other EU states have backed moderate democratic forces within the Syrian opposition. Hague has promised it \"increased support\". Russia and the UK were interested in a \"political transition\" in Syria, he said, though they disagree how to get there.Wednesday's meeting amounts to a mini-thaw in relations between the Kremlin and London. It follows a series of rows over the 2006 polonium murder of the Russian intelligence officer Alexander Litvinenko and the government's failure, as Russia sees it, to extradite Russian nationals who have fled to the UK.At a joint press conference, both foreign ministers dodged the Litivnenko issue. Hague alluded to the \"one or two areas where we are known to have differences\". Lavrov said on Moscow's extradition requests \u2013 repeatedly dismissed by British judges as politically motivated \u2013 there had been \"slow progress\".On Tuesday Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent accused of Litvinenko's murder, said he would not take part in an inquest being held into Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said the hearing was \"biased\" following an application by Hague to keep secret the government's Litvinenko files. It emerged last year that at the time of his death Litvinenko had been working for the British and Spanish secret services, and was receiving regular payments from MI6. On Wednesday foreign office officials insisted Litvinenko and Russia's dismal human rights record was raised during \"substantive\" bilateral talks. Both sides appear keen to move on from the Litvinenko affair. But Hague's apparent attempt to reset relations with Russia over the past three years has attracted criticism. David Clark, chairman of the Russian Foundation, and a former aide to Robin Cook, said the gap between the two governments remained too wide for a meaningful breakthrough.He said: \"William Hague is now exploring options for providing military aid to the rebels and clearly envisages a future without President Assad as the only acceptable option, while the Russians are still determined to keep their ally in place. They have repeatedly blocked action on the UN security council that might compromise their objective.\" Clark described Hague as an \"old-fashioned rightwing foreign policy realist\". \"He sees foreign policy in terms of trade and serious powers doing business with each other.\"In Syria an EU adviser was killed on Tuesday in a rocket attack near the capital, Damascus, the 27-nation bloc confirmed.Ahmad Shihadeh, a policy officer with the EU delegation in Syria, died on Tuesday in the Damascus suburb of Daraya, where he lived, according to the office of the EU's foreign policy chief, Lady Ashton.A spokesman for Ashton said Shihadeh was Syrian, 32, and had worked for the EU for five years. It was the first death in the Syrian civil war of an EU employee. Shihadeh \"died while providing humanitarian help to the community (of Daraya)\", Ashton said. \"Ahmad was known for his courage and selflessness.\"Ashton also called for an end to the conflict: \"As we approach the second anniversary of the uprising in Syria, I call again on all sides to take urgent steps to end the violence, which has led to the deaths of some 100,000 innocent citizens and over 1 million refugees seeking shelter in neighbouring countries.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "Russia", "Syria", "Foreign policy", "William Hague", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Politics"], "title": "Russia warns UK against arming Syrian rebels"},{"date": "2013-02-15T08:45:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A meteorite has flared spectacularly in the sky and exploded over theRussian region of Chelyabinsk, reportedly injuring around 400 people.Fragments of the meteor fell in a thinly populated area of the region, the emergencies ministry said in a statement.Interior ministry spokesman Vadim Kolesnikov said 102 people hadcalled for medical assistance following the incident, mostly fortreatment of injuries from glass broken by the explosions.Kolesnikov also said about 600 sq metres (6,500 sq ft) of a roof at a zinc factory had collapsed.Reports conflicted on what exactly happened in the clear skies. Emergencies ministry spokeswoman Irina Rossius told Associated Press that there was a meteor shower, but another ministry spokeswoman, Elena Smirnikh, was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying it was a single meteorite.\"It was definitely not a plane,\" an emergency official told Reuters. \"We are gathering the bits of information and have no data on the casualties so far.\"A witness in Chelyabinsk reported hearing a huge blast early in the morning and feeling a shockwave in a 19-storey building in the town centre.The sounds of car alarms and breaking windows could be heard in the area, the witness said, and mobile phones were working intermittently. \"Preliminary indications are that it was a meteorite rain,\" an emergency official told RIA-Novosti. \"We have information about a blast at 10,000-metre altitude. It is being verified.\"\"I was driving to work, it was quite dark, but it suddenly became asbright as if it was day,\" said Viktor Prokofiev, a 36-year-old resident ofYekaterinburg in the Urals mountains.\"I felt like I was blinded by headlights,\" he told Reuters.No deaths were reported but President Vladimir Putin, who was dueto host finance ministry officials from the G20 nations in Moscow, and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev were quickly informed.Amateur video broadcast on Russian television showed an objectspeeding across the sky (video) about 9:20 am local time (0320 GMT), leaving a thick white contrail and an intense flash.The emergencies ministry described Friday's events as a \"meteor showerin the form of fireballs\" and said background radiation levels werenormal. It urged residents not to panic.Chelyabinsk city authorities urged people to stay indoors unless theyneeded to pick up their children from schools and nurseries. Theysaid a blast had been heard at an altitude of 10,000 metres, apparently signalling it occurred when the meteorite entered Earth's atmosphere.In 1908 a meteorite is thought to have devastated an area of more than700 sq miles in Siberia in what became known as theTunguska event.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Space", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explosion over Russia injures hundreds"},{"date": "2013-02-15T12:27:13Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A space rock, which the Russian Academy of Sciences estimates weighed about 10 tonnes. Videos show a bright trail streaking through the sky, which is the object burning up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere. The rock hit the atmosphere at a speed of at least 54,000km/h (33,000mph), compressing the air in its path and heating it to thousands of degrees, which gives off light. The sharp compression of the air creates a shock wave, which is heard as a sonic boom in many of the videos.Footage clearly shows a single object streaking across the sky, but it is believed the rock shattered some 18-32 miles (30-50km) above ground. Some videos show a sudden brightening as the body fragmented during its fiery passage through the atmosphere.Around 40,000 tonnes of space rocks fall to Earth every year, mostly in the form of dust and relatively small meteorites. The last time something major struck the Earth was in 1908, when an asteroid about 50 metres across exploded in the air above the Tunguska region of Siberia. It flattened forests over an area of hundreds of square miles. Friday morning's event was a tiny fraction of this magnitude. Something like this probably happens every decade but usually takes place over an unpopulated area.No one is previously recorded to have been killed by a meteorite falling from the sky. There are stories of a dog being killed in Egypt in 1911 and a boy being hit but not seriously injured in Uganda in 1992. Most of the Earth's surface is uninhabited by humans, so meteorites usually fall over desolate areas or the oceans.Astronomers love their definitions. A meteoroid is anything in orbit around the sun that is smaller than 10 metres. It becomes known as an asteroid above this size and up to about 1,000 kilometres. A meteor is a speck of dust that burns up in the atmosphere creating a shooting star. A meteorite is a larger fragment, from pebble to boulder-sized, that survives to strike the surface of the Earth.These definitions are blurring, however. Almost everyone it seems is using the word meteor to describe the object that hit Russia. Blame Sean Connery. Back in 1979, he starred in a disaster movie about an asteroid that was to strike Earth. They called the movie Meteor.The Russian meteorite hit during the daytime. The glare of the sun masked its approach, like a fighter pilot using the sun to blind an enemy to the attack. There could be thousands of asteroids that orbit closer to the sun than the Earth, approaching our planet only occasionally and always from \"out of the sun\". They are virtually impossible to spot from Earth because they are always masked by daylight. Only a space telescope could see these effectively. The European Space Agency's Gaia mission will help discover more of these asteroids.No, the Royal Astronomical Society in London and the European Space Agency in Darmstadt, Germany, both say that the approach of Friday morning's strike is unrelated to the approach of space rock 2012 DA14, which will draw extremely close to Earth on Friday night. According to Nasa's Near-Earth Object Observation Programme, an asteroid like 2012 DA14 flies this close on average only once every 40 years \u2013 although it will still be some 17,100 miles above our heads. Nevertheless, this is closer to the Earth than many artificial satellites.A recently formed working group of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space would be called into session. Known as the space mission planning advisory group, it is composed of scientists from Nasa, the European Space Agency and the world's other space agencies. The group would immediately meet to advise on the best strategy for dealing with the asteroid. It would also advise on who has the expertise to build the different parts of the necessary spacecraft, and who should pay for it. Then it would pass the decision into the hands of politicians.No. Incoming asteroids and meteoroids can come from any direction. Additionally, the Earth rotates once a day, presenting every hemisphere to the different directions of space.Friday's impact was certainly not enough to knock the Earth off its axis, nor imperil telecommunications networks. The shockwave was compressed air rather than the electromagnetic pulse (EMP) created by nuclear weapons and solar flares. Neither is there a real risk of alien death viruses. Meteorites fall to Earth all the time \u2013 none has brought space bugs yet. Although there are theories that microbes could hitch rides on space rocks, there is no incontrovertible evidence that this is a widespread phenomenon.Dr Stuart Clark writes the Across the Universe blog.", "tags": ["Meteors", "Russia", "Space", "Science", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Meteorite explodes over Russia: key questions answered"},{"date": "2013-02-11T10:07:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government blocked access last week to a blog-hosting site that publishes the work of two prominent independent journalists who are often critical of the Kremlin, reports Mike Rispoli.The site, LJRossia.org (LJR), was added to the country's official \"internet blacklist.\"It is described as \"a non-profit project created to support freedom of speech, civil society and encourage the free exchange of ideas.\" Two journalists who run blogs on LJR are Andrei Malgin, who has been very critical of the government, and Vladimir Pribylovsky, who has been targeted for publishing a database of government misdeeds and for disclosing official documents that expose corruption.Source: Mike Rispoli/Access", "tags": ["Media", "Censorship", "Russia", "Press freedom", "Digital media"], "title": "Russia blocks access to blog site"},{"date": "2013-02-03T13:45:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian and Iranian foreign ministers met the Syrian opposition leader, Moaz al-Khatib, for the first time on Saturday in a rare sign of diplomatic progress, but the bloodshed from the conflict continued to worsen, with nearly 5,000 people reported dead in January alone.The latest death toll was reported by the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a dissident group whose casualty estimates have been consistently confirmed by the UN. Its director, Rami Abdulrahman, said his researchers had recorded the deaths of 4,851 people in January, of whom 1,030 were members of the Syrian regular security forces while 3,305 were civilians or rebel irregulars.It marks the second worst month of the 23-month conflict. Abdulrahman said the death toll appeared to reflect the widespread and intense nature of recent fighting and the regime's heavy use of aerial bombardment of rebel-held areas.At Munich, where a global security conference was held this weekend, there was some progress on the diplomatic front towards breaking a deadlock that has prevented a concerted international response to the conflict.Khatib, the leader of Syria's National Coalition opposition group, widely recognised in the west and the Arab world as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people, met the foreign ministers of Russia and Iran, the Assad regime's only major supporters on the world stage.The opposition leaders also met the US vice president, Joseph Biden, and the UN special envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, at the margins of the Munich conference.Following Khatib's offer to hold preliminary talks with the regime, conditional upon the release of political prisoners, the discussions raised hopes that a way could be found around the stalemate in the UN security council.After his meeting with the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, the Syrian opposition leader said: \"Russia has a certain vision but we welcome negotiations to alleviate the crisis and there are lots of details that need to be discussed.\"The Iranian foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, said Iran would hold further meetings with Khatib and called for the formation of a joint transitional government from among members of the regime and the opposition under UN supervision leading to elections and a new constitution.However, there was no sign of a breakthrough over the central sticking point that has divided the security council and prevented Syrian peace talks: the fate of Assad.Lavrov told the Munich conference: \"The persistence of those who say that priority number one is the removal of Assad is the single biggest reason for the continuing tragedy in Syria.\"Salehi was less specific. His prescription for a transition to democracy made no mention of Assad, but he asked: \"If you ask for the government to stand down before negotiations, who do you negotiate with?\"On Saturday, Biden gave his full support to the opposition stance that Assad has so much blood on his hands that he could not be part of a transition government. Biden said the White House was \"convinced that President Assad, a tyrant hell-bent on clinging to power, is no longer fit to lead Syrian people and he must go\".Moscow has become increasingly isolated in its personal backing for Assad. Brahimi, the UN envoy, told the security council last week that the implication of an agreement of major powers last year in Geneva was that Assad should have no part in the transition process.The Turkish foreign minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, ridiculed the idea that the Syrian leader should remain in power to oversee a transition.\"It's easy to say the opposition should sit down with him now after 60,000 people have been killed,\" Davutoglu said. \"If they held an election in his presence who would guarantee the security of the opposition? There should be an election, but first someone should be [held] responsible for all the killing.\"The Qatari prime minister, Sheikh Hamad bin Jaber al-Thani, said repeated attempts to organise talks between Assad and the opposition in the early months of the Syrian uprising had failed because of \"the intransigence of the regime\".\"I have no doubt Assad will leave, because he cannot stay with so much blood on his hands,\" he said. He also criticised Israel for its air strikes in Syria last week, which he said would \"add fuel to the fire\".In the first direct comment by an Israeli official on Tuesday's air strikes, Ehud Barak, the outgoing defence minister and deputy prime minister, appeared to confirm widespread reports that it was targeted at anti-aircraft missiles bound for Hezbollah in Lebanon.\"What happened in Syria several days ago\u00a0\u2026 that's proof that when we said something we mean it, we say that we don't think it should be allowed to bring advanced weapons systems into Lebanon,\" Barak told the Munich conference.Bashar Assad said on Sunday that his military was capable of confronting any \"aggression\" that targeted the country, in his first remarks since the Israeli strike.The Syrian Observatory's estimate of the total number of dead from almost two years of conflict is 51,167. That is below the UN estimate of 60,000, but the Observatory's methodology is more conservative, requiring confirmation of the names of the dead. Of that total, 3,717 of the war's victims were children and 2,144 were women.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Russia", "Bashar al-Assad", "Iran", "World news"], "title": "Russia and Iran meet Syrian opposition leader"},{"date": "2013-04-01T21:17:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Always remember that Vladimir Putin could have reacted differently. He could have acknowledged that, after 13 years in power, his brand is tarnished and Russia is changing. It now has a middle class that ridicules the division between a Kremlin-licensed opposition and an unlicensed one that craves fair elections, independent courts and public accountability \u2013 that craves, in short, civil society.Instead, Mr Putin's reflex reaction to such change (with his uneasy confection of Christian Orthodox and conservative, xenophobic nationalism, Mr Putin is as much a pre-Soviet figure as a Soviet hangover) is to go after the very people who remind him how unpopular he is. A notorious law passed last year required Russian NGOs that receive foreign funding and are engaged in \"political activity\" to register as \"foreign agents\" \u2013 words in the Russian language that are tantamount to \"spies\".For eight months, little happened. The levers of the security state are sometimes so rusty that they require several tugs to shift. The president had to go in person on Valentine's Day to the federal security service (FSB), to remind his former comrades that the \"law had to be complied with\".For the past two weeks at least 30 raids have been launched on Russian and international NGOs alike in Moscow, and many more in the provinces. Distinguished names appear on the FSB hitlist \u2013 the Memorial human rights group, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Lev Ponomarev, the head of For Human Rights, which itself was targeted, said this was the start of the planned destruction of the NGO sector in Russia.The raiding party typically consists of three people from the prosecutor's office, one from the tax office and, often, a camera crew from the pro-Kremlin NTV station. They demand to see registration documents, tax submissions and computer hard drives. The whole televised charade seeks to portray Russia's political opposition as foreign-sponsored. But, as the majority of Russian NGOs have refused to register themselves as \"foreign agents\", these raids may just be the start of a campaign to put them out of business.Germany, whose manufacturers have heavily invested in Russia, is greatly irked. It rightly interprets Mr Putin's action as revenge for the embarrassment that the election-monitoring body Golos caused him in the Duma elections in 2011. Russian humiliations in Cyprus at German hands have not helped. Berlin has formally expressed its \"concern\". But it should do more. With the advent of shale gas, and cheaper natural gas, Russian gas has lost its status as a monopoly supplier. Now, Gazprom needs the west for its profits. Mr Putin should be told that his vendettas will prove costly.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's personal vendetta | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-04-01T21:17:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Always remember that Vladimir Putin could have reacted differently. He could have acknowledged that, after 13 years in power, his brand is tarnished and Russia is changing. It now has a middle class that ridicules the division between a Kremlin-licensed opposition and an unlicensed one that craves fair elections, independent courts and public accountability \u2013 that craves, in short, civil society.Instead, Mr Putin's reflex reaction to such change (with his uneasy confection of Christian Orthodox and conservative, xenophobic nationalism, Mr Putin is as much a pre-Soviet figure as a Soviet hangover) is to go after the very people who remind him how unpopular he is. A notorious law passed last year required Russian NGOs that receive foreign funding and are engaged in \"political activity\" to register as \"foreign agents\" \u2013 words in the Russian language that are tantamount to \"spies\".For eight months, little happened. The levers of the security state are sometimes so rusty that they require several tugs to shift. The president had to go in person on Valentine's Day to the federal security service (FSB), to remind his former comrades that the \"law had to be complied with\".For the past two weeks at least 30 raids have been launched on Russian and international NGOs alike in Moscow, and many more in the provinces. Distinguished names appear on the FSB hitlist \u2013 the Memorial human rights group, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Lev Ponomarev, the head of For Human Rights, which itself was targeted, said this was the start of the planned destruction of the NGO sector in Russia.The raiding party typically consists of three people from the prosecutor's office, one from the tax office and, often, a camera crew from the pro-Kremlin NTV station. They demand to see registration documents, tax submissions and computer hard drives. The whole televised charade seeks to portray Russia's political opposition as foreign-sponsored. But, as the majority of Russian NGOs have refused to register themselves as \"foreign agents\", these raids may just be the start of a campaign to put them out of business.Germany, whose manufacturers have heavily invested in Russia, is greatly irked. It rightly interprets Mr Putin's action as revenge for the embarrassment that the election-monitoring body Golos caused him in the Duma elections in 2011. Russian humiliations in Cyprus at German hands have not helped. Berlin has formally expressed its \"concern\". But it should do more. With the advent of shale gas, and cheaper natural gas, Russian gas has lost its status as a monopoly supplier. Now, Gazprom needs the west for its profits. Mr Putin should be told that his vendettas will prove costly.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's personal vendetta | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:30:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has evacuated the last of its personnel from Syria, including from its Mediterranean naval base in Tartus, in a move that appears to underline Moscow's mounting concerns about the escalating crisis.Russian media reported on Wednesday that they had confirmed the evacuation with officials in the country's military and foreign ministry. But there was no official confirmation of a claim from rebel Free Syrian Army sources that a Russian plane had been shot down and its pilot captured in the western Aleppo area.The effective closure of the Tartus base would be a significant loss, though a 16-ship naval task force is still in the eastern Mediterranean. The base is Russia's only foothold in the Middle East.Neighbouring Cyprus has, however, made its ports available to the Russian fleet. Cypriot media have reported that the government may allow Russia to use its base at Paphos to host military aircraft.News that Russian forces had pulled out of Syria came in an interview with Mikhail Bogdanov, the deputy foreign minister, in an interview with the newspaper al-Hayat last week.\"Today, the Russian defence ministry does not have a single person in Syria,\" he said. He described Tartus as a \"technical facility for maintaining ships sailing in the Mediterranean.\"The Vedomosti newspaper quoted an unnamed defence ministry official as saying: \"We have neither servicemen nor civilians in Syria any more. Or Russian military instructors assigned to units of the Syrian regular army, for that matter.\"But Vedomosti said the decision to remove defence ministry personnel did not include technical experts employed by the Syrian government to train its army to use Russian-issued weapons.Russia Today, the Kremlin's English-language propaganda channel, said: \"The withdrawal was prompted not only by the increased risks caused by the ongoing military conflict, but also by the fact that in the current conditions any incident involving Russian servicemen would likely have some unfavourable reaction from the international community.\"Russia has been evacuating its citizens from Syria for weeks. Bogdanov said that about 30,000 Russians live throughout the country, some in rebel-held areas. The Interfax news agency reported that 128 Russians and citizens of other former Soviet republics left Syria on Wednesday on planes that had delivered what was described as humanitarian supplies the previous day.Russia remains Assad's last major ally, alongside Iran. It has repeatedly blocked US-led attempts to sanction Bashar al-Assad's regime via the UN. Russia and the US failed to agree in talks this week on convening a peace conference in Geneva between the Syrian government and opposition.The pullout from Tartus is unlikely to interfere with the delivery of Russian air defence and anti-ship missiles to Syria. Bogdanov defended the shipments of arms as legal and arranged under an existing contract. Asked when the deliveries would begin, he replied that that was a decision for the \"supreme command\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Bashar al-Assad", "Cyprus"], "title": "Russia withdraws its remaining personnel from Syria"},{"date": "2013-04-01T21:17:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Always remember that Vladimir Putin could have reacted differently. He could have acknowledged that, after 13 years in power, his brand is tarnished and Russia is changing. It now has a middle class that ridicules the division between a Kremlin-licensed opposition and an unlicensed one that craves fair elections, independent courts and public accountability \u2013 that craves, in short, civil society.Instead, Mr Putin's reflex reaction to such change (with his uneasy confection of Christian Orthodox and conservative, xenophobic nationalism, Mr Putin is as much a pre-Soviet figure as a Soviet hangover) is to go after the very people who remind him how unpopular he is. A notorious law passed last year required Russian NGOs that receive foreign funding and are engaged in \"political activity\" to register as \"foreign agents\" \u2013 words in the Russian language that are tantamount to \"spies\".For eight months, little happened. The levers of the security state are sometimes so rusty that they require several tugs to shift. The president had to go in person on Valentine's Day to the federal security service (FSB), to remind his former comrades that the \"law had to be complied with\".For the past two weeks at least 30 raids have been launched on Russian and international NGOs alike in Moscow, and many more in the provinces. Distinguished names appear on the FSB hitlist \u2013 the Memorial human rights group, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Lev Ponomarev, the head of For Human Rights, which itself was targeted, said this was the start of the planned destruction of the NGO sector in Russia.The raiding party typically consists of three people from the prosecutor's office, one from the tax office and, often, a camera crew from the pro-Kremlin NTV station. They demand to see registration documents, tax submissions and computer hard drives. The whole televised charade seeks to portray Russia's political opposition as foreign-sponsored. But, as the majority of Russian NGOs have refused to register themselves as \"foreign agents\", these raids may just be the start of a campaign to put them out of business.Germany, whose manufacturers have heavily invested in Russia, is greatly irked. It rightly interprets Mr Putin's action as revenge for the embarrassment that the election-monitoring body Golos caused him in the Duma elections in 2011. Russian humiliations in Cyprus at German hands have not helped. Berlin has formally expressed its \"concern\". But it should do more. With the advent of shale gas, and cheaper natural gas, Russian gas has lost its status as a monopoly supplier. Now, Gazprom needs the west for its profits. Mr Putin should be told that his vendettas will prove costly.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's personal vendetta | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:30:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has evacuated the last of its personnel from Syria, including from its Mediterranean naval base in Tartus, in a move that appears to underline Moscow's mounting concerns about the escalating crisis.Russian media reported on Wednesday that they had confirmed the evacuation with officials in the country's military and foreign ministry. But there was no official confirmation of a claim from rebel Free Syrian Army sources that a Russian plane had been shot down and its pilot captured in the western Aleppo area.The effective closure of the Tartus base would be a significant loss, though a 16-ship naval task force is still in the eastern Mediterranean. The base is Russia's only foothold in the Middle East.Neighbouring Cyprus has, however, made its ports available to the Russian fleet. Cypriot media have reported that the government may allow Russia to use its base at Paphos to host military aircraft.News that Russian forces had pulled out of Syria came in an interview with Mikhail Bogdanov, the deputy foreign minister, in an interview with the newspaper al-Hayat last week.\"Today, the Russian defence ministry does not have a single person in Syria,\" he said. He described Tartus as a \"technical facility for maintaining ships sailing in the Mediterranean.\"The Vedomosti newspaper quoted an unnamed defence ministry official as saying: \"We have neither servicemen nor civilians in Syria any more. Or Russian military instructors assigned to units of the Syrian regular army, for that matter.\"But Vedomosti said the decision to remove defence ministry personnel did not include technical experts employed by the Syrian government to train its army to use Russian-issued weapons.Russia Today, the Kremlin's English-language propaganda channel, said: \"The withdrawal was prompted not only by the increased risks caused by the ongoing military conflict, but also by the fact that in the current conditions any incident involving Russian servicemen would likely have some unfavourable reaction from the international community.\"Russia has been evacuating its citizens from Syria for weeks. Bogdanov said that about 30,000 Russians live throughout the country, some in rebel-held areas. The Interfax news agency reported that 128 Russians and citizens of other former Soviet republics left Syria on Wednesday on planes that had delivered what was described as humanitarian supplies the previous day.Russia remains Assad's last major ally, alongside Iran. It has repeatedly blocked US-led attempts to sanction Bashar al-Assad's regime via the UN. Russia and the US failed to agree in talks this week on convening a peace conference in Geneva between the Syrian government and opposition.The pullout from Tartus is unlikely to interfere with the delivery of Russian air defence and anti-ship missiles to Syria. Bogdanov defended the shipments of arms as legal and arranged under an existing contract. Asked when the deliveries would begin, he replied that that was a decision for the \"supreme command\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Bashar al-Assad", "Cyprus"], "title": "Russia withdraws its remaining personnel from Syria"},{"date": "2013-06-18T07:40:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": " 8.39am BST For updates on the G8 summit please follow Politics Live.Middle East Live is now primarily a forum for readers to share links and offer\u00a0commentary\u00a0on developments in the Middle East. Please post your comments below.Here's a roundup of the latest news:\u2022 President Bashar al-Assad has dismissed as \"ludicrous\" western claims that his forces used chemical weapons against rebel-held areas. In an interview with the German newspaper\u00a0Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung he said the claims were being used as a pretext for military intervention:\u00a0It is counterintuitive to use chemical weapons to create a death toll that you could potentially reach by using conventional weapons.\u00a0These allegations are ludicrous ... All the claims relating to the use of chemical weapons is an extension of the continuous American and western fabrication of the actual situation in Syria. Its sole aim is to justify their policies to their public opinion and use the claim as a pretext for more military intervention and bloodshed in Syria.Assad also warned of increased terrorism in Europe if the west supplied arms to Syrian rebels.\u2022 Prospects of agreement between Moscow and Washington on how to end the war in Syria looked as remote as ever on Monday after a chilly bilateral meeting between Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin ended with a stiff exchange of diplomatic pleasantries.\u00a0President Obama said the talks, on the fringes of the G8 summit in Northern Ireland, had been very useful, but both sides acknowledged disagreements over whether Assad should step down and if rebel groups should receive arms from the west.\u2022 David Cameron pressed fellow G8 leaders to forge an agreement around five principles for a Syria peace conference due to take place next month in Geneva. The principles risk isolating Russia as they include backing a transition government in Syria that would hold executive powers over all institutions, including the army.\u2022 Israel's president, Shimon Peres, has thrown his weight behind US plans to arm Syrian rebels, shrugging off fears the weapons could be turned on Israel and exacerbate the conflict. In an interview with Reuters, he said:\u00a0\"They didn't have a choice ...\u00a0Unfortunately it is becoming more of a confrontation between two superpowers and (there is) a growing intervention of outside forces ... It is a tragedy.\"\u2022 Obama has announced an extra $300m in aid to help tackle the humanitarian crisis sparked by the conflict in Syria. The US urged countries neighbouring Syria to keep their borders open to Syrian refugees.\u00a0\u2022 President Mohamed Morsi has appointed a member of the hardline Islamist group Gamaa Islamiya to the governorship of Luxor \u2013 a tourist city in which militants associated with the group killed 58 tourists in 1997.\u00a0The symbolism of the appointment has enraged Egypt's sidelined non-Islamist opposition, who see it as further evidence that Morsi is unconcerned about the country's increasing polarisation.\u2022 Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, has promised to reduce tensions with the west, show more transparency on its nuclear front and bring moderation back to the forefront of Iranian politics.\u00a0In his first press conference in Tehran, Rouhani presented himself as a moderate politician willing to \"enhance mutual trust\" between Tehran and the international community, including Britain and the US, and as the saviour of the Iranian economy by working to lift sanctions.\u2022 Turkey\u2019s leaders are prepared to use the armed forces against protesters if they consider it necessary, the deputy prime minister has warned.\u00a0With protesters and police continuing to skirmish in Istanbul and the capital, Ankara, the warning from\u00a0B\u00fclent Ar\u0131n\u00e7 was a significant rhetorical escalation in the crackdown on\u00a0anti-government demonstrations, the Washington Post reports.Updated at 9.57am BST", "tags": ["Syria", "Bashar al-Assad", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Iran", "Egypt", "Turkey", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Refugees", "World news", "Chemical weapons"], "title": "Syria crisis: Russia faces isolation at G8"},{"date": "2013-04-01T21:17:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Always remember that Vladimir Putin could have reacted differently. He could have acknowledged that, after 13 years in power, his brand is tarnished and Russia is changing. It now has a middle class that ridicules the division between a Kremlin-licensed opposition and an unlicensed one that craves fair elections, independent courts and public accountability \u2013 that craves, in short, civil society.Instead, Mr Putin's reflex reaction to such change (with his uneasy confection of Christian Orthodox and conservative, xenophobic nationalism, Mr Putin is as much a pre-Soviet figure as a Soviet hangover) is to go after the very people who remind him how unpopular he is. A notorious law passed last year required Russian NGOs that receive foreign funding and are engaged in \"political activity\" to register as \"foreign agents\" \u2013 words in the Russian language that are tantamount to \"spies\".For eight months, little happened. The levers of the security state are sometimes so rusty that they require several tugs to shift. The president had to go in person on Valentine's Day to the federal security service (FSB), to remind his former comrades that the \"law had to be complied with\".For the past two weeks at least 30 raids have been launched on Russian and international NGOs alike in Moscow, and many more in the provinces. Distinguished names appear on the FSB hitlist \u2013 the Memorial human rights group, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Lev Ponomarev, the head of For Human Rights, which itself was targeted, said this was the start of the planned destruction of the NGO sector in Russia.The raiding party typically consists of three people from the prosecutor's office, one from the tax office and, often, a camera crew from the pro-Kremlin NTV station. They demand to see registration documents, tax submissions and computer hard drives. The whole televised charade seeks to portray Russia's political opposition as foreign-sponsored. But, as the majority of Russian NGOs have refused to register themselves as \"foreign agents\", these raids may just be the start of a campaign to put them out of business.Germany, whose manufacturers have heavily invested in Russia, is greatly irked. It rightly interprets Mr Putin's action as revenge for the embarrassment that the election-monitoring body Golos caused him in the Duma elections in 2011. Russian humiliations in Cyprus at German hands have not helped. Berlin has formally expressed its \"concern\". But it should do more. With the advent of shale gas, and cheaper natural gas, Russian gas has lost its status as a monopoly supplier. Now, Gazprom needs the west for its profits. Mr Putin should be told that his vendettas will prove costly.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's personal vendetta | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:30:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has evacuated the last of its personnel from Syria, including from its Mediterranean naval base in Tartus, in a move that appears to underline Moscow's mounting concerns about the escalating crisis.Russian media reported on Wednesday that they had confirmed the evacuation with officials in the country's military and foreign ministry. But there was no official confirmation of a claim from rebel Free Syrian Army sources that a Russian plane had been shot down and its pilot captured in the western Aleppo area.The effective closure of the Tartus base would be a significant loss, though a 16-ship naval task force is still in the eastern Mediterranean. The base is Russia's only foothold in the Middle East.Neighbouring Cyprus has, however, made its ports available to the Russian fleet. Cypriot media have reported that the government may allow Russia to use its base at Paphos to host military aircraft.News that Russian forces had pulled out of Syria came in an interview with Mikhail Bogdanov, the deputy foreign minister, in an interview with the newspaper al-Hayat last week.\"Today, the Russian defence ministry does not have a single person in Syria,\" he said. He described Tartus as a \"technical facility for maintaining ships sailing in the Mediterranean.\"The Vedomosti newspaper quoted an unnamed defence ministry official as saying: \"We have neither servicemen nor civilians in Syria any more. Or Russian military instructors assigned to units of the Syrian regular army, for that matter.\"But Vedomosti said the decision to remove defence ministry personnel did not include technical experts employed by the Syrian government to train its army to use Russian-issued weapons.Russia Today, the Kremlin's English-language propaganda channel, said: \"The withdrawal was prompted not only by the increased risks caused by the ongoing military conflict, but also by the fact that in the current conditions any incident involving Russian servicemen would likely have some unfavourable reaction from the international community.\"Russia has been evacuating its citizens from Syria for weeks. Bogdanov said that about 30,000 Russians live throughout the country, some in rebel-held areas. The Interfax news agency reported that 128 Russians and citizens of other former Soviet republics left Syria on Wednesday on planes that had delivered what was described as humanitarian supplies the previous day.Russia remains Assad's last major ally, alongside Iran. It has repeatedly blocked US-led attempts to sanction Bashar al-Assad's regime via the UN. Russia and the US failed to agree in talks this week on convening a peace conference in Geneva between the Syrian government and opposition.The pullout from Tartus is unlikely to interfere with the delivery of Russian air defence and anti-ship missiles to Syria. Bogdanov defended the shipments of arms as legal and arranged under an existing contract. Asked when the deliveries would begin, he replied that that was a decision for the \"supreme command\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Bashar al-Assad", "Cyprus"], "title": "Russia withdraws its remaining personnel from Syria"},{"date": "2013-06-18T07:40:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": " 8.39am BST For updates on the G8 summit please follow Politics Live.Middle East Live is now primarily a forum for readers to share links and offer\u00a0commentary\u00a0on developments in the Middle East. Please post your comments below.Here's a roundup of the latest news:\u2022 President Bashar al-Assad has dismissed as \"ludicrous\" western claims that his forces used chemical weapons against rebel-held areas. In an interview with the German newspaper\u00a0Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung he said the claims were being used as a pretext for military intervention:\u00a0It is counterintuitive to use chemical weapons to create a death toll that you could potentially reach by using conventional weapons.\u00a0These allegations are ludicrous ... All the claims relating to the use of chemical weapons is an extension of the continuous American and western fabrication of the actual situation in Syria. Its sole aim is to justify their policies to their public opinion and use the claim as a pretext for more military intervention and bloodshed in Syria.Assad also warned of increased terrorism in Europe if the west supplied arms to Syrian rebels.\u2022 Prospects of agreement between Moscow and Washington on how to end the war in Syria looked as remote as ever on Monday after a chilly bilateral meeting between Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin ended with a stiff exchange of diplomatic pleasantries.\u00a0President Obama said the talks, on the fringes of the G8 summit in Northern Ireland, had been very useful, but both sides acknowledged disagreements over whether Assad should step down and if rebel groups should receive arms from the west.\u2022 David Cameron pressed fellow G8 leaders to forge an agreement around five principles for a Syria peace conference due to take place next month in Geneva. The principles risk isolating Russia as they include backing a transition government in Syria that would hold executive powers over all institutions, including the army.\u2022 Israel's president, Shimon Peres, has thrown his weight behind US plans to arm Syrian rebels, shrugging off fears the weapons could be turned on Israel and exacerbate the conflict. In an interview with Reuters, he said:\u00a0\"They didn't have a choice ...\u00a0Unfortunately it is becoming more of a confrontation between two superpowers and (there is) a growing intervention of outside forces ... It is a tragedy.\"\u2022 Obama has announced an extra $300m in aid to help tackle the humanitarian crisis sparked by the conflict in Syria. The US urged countries neighbouring Syria to keep their borders open to Syrian refugees.\u00a0\u2022 President Mohamed Morsi has appointed a member of the hardline Islamist group Gamaa Islamiya to the governorship of Luxor \u2013 a tourist city in which militants associated with the group killed 58 tourists in 1997.\u00a0The symbolism of the appointment has enraged Egypt's sidelined non-Islamist opposition, who see it as further evidence that Morsi is unconcerned about the country's increasing polarisation.\u2022 Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, has promised to reduce tensions with the west, show more transparency on its nuclear front and bring moderation back to the forefront of Iranian politics.\u00a0In his first press conference in Tehran, Rouhani presented himself as a moderate politician willing to \"enhance mutual trust\" between Tehran and the international community, including Britain and the US, and as the saviour of the Iranian economy by working to lift sanctions.\u2022 Turkey\u2019s leaders are prepared to use the armed forces against protesters if they consider it necessary, the deputy prime minister has warned.\u00a0With protesters and police continuing to skirmish in Istanbul and the capital, Ankara, the warning from\u00a0B\u00fclent Ar\u0131n\u00e7 was a significant rhetorical escalation in the crackdown on\u00a0anti-government demonstrations, the Washington Post reports.Updated at 9.57am BST", "tags": ["Syria", "Bashar al-Assad", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Iran", "Egypt", "Turkey", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Refugees", "World news", "Chemical weapons"], "title": "Syria crisis: Russia faces isolation at G8"},{"date": "2013-06-11T16:19:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's parliament has unanimously passed a federal law banning gay \"propaganda\" amid a Kremlin push to enshrine deeply conservative values that critics say has already led to a sharp increase in anti-gay violence.The law passed 436-0 on Tuesday, with just one deputy abstaining from voting on the bill, which bans the spreading of \"propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations\" among minors.The law in effect makes it illegal to equate straight and gay relationships, as well as the distribution of material on gay rights. It introduces fines for individuals and media groups found guilty of breaking the law, as well as special fines for foreigners.Minutes after passing the anti-gay legislation, the Duma also approved a new law allowing jail sentences of up to three years for \"offending religious feelings\", an initiative launched in the wake of the trial against the anti-Kremlin punk band Pussy Riot.The two laws were widely criticised by Russia's marginalised liberal and human rights communities and come amid a wider crackdown against independent civil activity in the country.\"I have sincere contempt for the Duma's deputies. All, including the so-called opposition. You have now brought fascism to my country,\" wrote Yelena Kostychenko, a journalist at the independent Novaya Gazeta newspaper.International rights groups have called the current situation in Russia the worst human rights climate in the post-Soviet era.The two laws vastly boost the power of the Russian Orthodox church, a religious body that professes total allegiance to the state. Putin, who often makes a show of his faith, has increasingly called upon the church to fill his own ideological vacuum following a contested presidential election last year, accompanied by unprecedented protests against him.The case against Pussy Riot \u2013 in which three members were found guilty of \"hooliganism motivated by religious hatred\" after performing an anti-Putin anthem inside a Moscow church \u2013 was widely seen as the launch of an ultra-conservative agenda.Russia's anti-gay law, whose text was softened to remove explicit referrals to \"homosexual propaganda\", introduces fines of up to 100,000 roubles (\u00a31,975) for individuals who have used the media or internet to promote \"non-traditional relations\". Organisations can be fined up to 1m roubles and closed down for up to 90 days.The bill, which must be signed by Putin to become law, also says foreigners can be detained for up to 15 days and deported, as well as fined up to 100,000 roubles, for breaking the law.International gay rights activists, including British campaigner Peter Tatchell and US activist Dan Choi, have regularly travelled to Russia to support the country's struggling gay rights movement.Russian activists insisted they would not halt their work. \"It was totally expected \u2013 I don't take today's decision as the end of something,\" said Igor Kochetkov, the head of LGBT Network, a St Petersburg-based group.\"We insist on equal rights for all and we will continue to stand up against those patriarchal values that are today being actively promoted by the church and the government. We are doing this because we think these values, these norms, don't fit into a modern society.\"\"The government is using these instincts \u2013 homophobia, xenophobia \u2013 to justify its policies against an independent civil society,\" Kochetkov said. \"They are making enemies out of us \u2013 not just LGBT society, but any group in society that doesn't agree with their current politics.\"Clashes broke out in front of the Russian parliament on Tuesday, as around 300 activists gathered to protest for and against the bill. Police said 20 people were detained.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Vladimir Putin", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia passes law banning gay 'propaganda'"},{"date": "2013-04-01T21:17:02Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Always remember that Vladimir Putin could have reacted differently. He could have acknowledged that, after 13 years in power, his brand is tarnished and Russia is changing. It now has a middle class that ridicules the division between a Kremlin-licensed opposition and an unlicensed one that craves fair elections, independent courts and public accountability \u2013 that craves, in short, civil society.Instead, Mr Putin's reflex reaction to such change (with his uneasy confection of Christian Orthodox and conservative, xenophobic nationalism, Mr Putin is as much a pre-Soviet figure as a Soviet hangover) is to go after the very people who remind him how unpopular he is. A notorious law passed last year required Russian NGOs that receive foreign funding and are engaged in \"political activity\" to register as \"foreign agents\" \u2013 words in the Russian language that are tantamount to \"spies\".For eight months, little happened. The levers of the security state are sometimes so rusty that they require several tugs to shift. The president had to go in person on Valentine's Day to the federal security service (FSB), to remind his former comrades that the \"law had to be complied with\".For the past two weeks at least 30 raids have been launched on Russian and international NGOs alike in Moscow, and many more in the provinces. Distinguished names appear on the FSB hitlist \u2013 the Memorial human rights group, Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung. Lev Ponomarev, the head of For Human Rights, which itself was targeted, said this was the start of the planned destruction of the NGO sector in Russia.The raiding party typically consists of three people from the prosecutor's office, one from the tax office and, often, a camera crew from the pro-Kremlin NTV station. They demand to see registration documents, tax submissions and computer hard drives. The whole televised charade seeks to portray Russia's political opposition as foreign-sponsored. But, as the majority of Russian NGOs have refused to register themselves as \"foreign agents\", these raids may just be the start of a campaign to put them out of business.Germany, whose manufacturers have heavily invested in Russia, is greatly irked. It rightly interprets Mr Putin's action as revenge for the embarrassment that the election-monitoring body Golos caused him in the Duma elections in 2011. Russian humiliations in Cyprus at German hands have not helped. Berlin has formally expressed its \"concern\". But it should do more. With the advent of shale gas, and cheaper natural gas, Russian gas has lost its status as a monopoly supplier. Now, Gazprom needs the west for its profits. Mr Putin should be told that his vendettas will prove costly.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Russia: Putin's personal vendetta | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-26T17:30:26Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has evacuated the last of its personnel from Syria, including from its Mediterranean naval base in Tartus, in a move that appears to underline Moscow's mounting concerns about the escalating crisis.Russian media reported on Wednesday that they had confirmed the evacuation with officials in the country's military and foreign ministry. But there was no official confirmation of a claim from rebel Free Syrian Army sources that a Russian plane had been shot down and its pilot captured in the western Aleppo area.The effective closure of the Tartus base would be a significant loss, though a 16-ship naval task force is still in the eastern Mediterranean. The base is Russia's only foothold in the Middle East.Neighbouring Cyprus has, however, made its ports available to the Russian fleet. Cypriot media have reported that the government may allow Russia to use its base at Paphos to host military aircraft.News that Russian forces had pulled out of Syria came in an interview with Mikhail Bogdanov, the deputy foreign minister, in an interview with the newspaper al-Hayat last week.\"Today, the Russian defence ministry does not have a single person in Syria,\" he said. He described Tartus as a \"technical facility for maintaining ships sailing in the Mediterranean.\"The Vedomosti newspaper quoted an unnamed defence ministry official as saying: \"We have neither servicemen nor civilians in Syria any more. Or Russian military instructors assigned to units of the Syrian regular army, for that matter.\"But Vedomosti said the decision to remove defence ministry personnel did not include technical experts employed by the Syrian government to train its army to use Russian-issued weapons.Russia Today, the Kremlin's English-language propaganda channel, said: \"The withdrawal was prompted not only by the increased risks caused by the ongoing military conflict, but also by the fact that in the current conditions any incident involving Russian servicemen would likely have some unfavourable reaction from the international community.\"Russia has been evacuating its citizens from Syria for weeks. Bogdanov said that about 30,000 Russians live throughout the country, some in rebel-held areas. The Interfax news agency reported that 128 Russians and citizens of other former Soviet republics left Syria on Wednesday on planes that had delivered what was described as humanitarian supplies the previous day.Russia remains Assad's last major ally, alongside Iran. It has repeatedly blocked US-led attempts to sanction Bashar al-Assad's regime via the UN. Russia and the US failed to agree in talks this week on convening a peace conference in Geneva between the Syrian government and opposition.The pullout from Tartus is unlikely to interfere with the delivery of Russian air defence and anti-ship missiles to Syria. Bogdanov defended the shipments of arms as legal and arranged under an existing contract. Asked when the deliveries would begin, he replied that that was a decision for the \"supreme command\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Bashar al-Assad", "Cyprus"], "title": "Russia withdraws its remaining personnel from Syria"},{"date": "2013-06-18T07:40:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": " 8.39am BST For updates on the G8 summit please follow Politics Live.Middle East Live is now primarily a forum for readers to share links and offer\u00a0commentary\u00a0on developments in the Middle East. Please post your comments below.Here's a roundup of the latest news:\u2022 President Bashar al-Assad has dismissed as \"ludicrous\" western claims that his forces used chemical weapons against rebel-held areas. In an interview with the German newspaper\u00a0Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung he said the claims were being used as a pretext for military intervention:\u00a0It is counterintuitive to use chemical weapons to create a death toll that you could potentially reach by using conventional weapons.\u00a0These allegations are ludicrous ... All the claims relating to the use of chemical weapons is an extension of the continuous American and western fabrication of the actual situation in Syria. Its sole aim is to justify their policies to their public opinion and use the claim as a pretext for more military intervention and bloodshed in Syria.Assad also warned of increased terrorism in Europe if the west supplied arms to Syrian rebels.\u2022 Prospects of agreement between Moscow and Washington on how to end the war in Syria looked as remote as ever on Monday after a chilly bilateral meeting between Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin ended with a stiff exchange of diplomatic pleasantries.\u00a0President Obama said the talks, on the fringes of the G8 summit in Northern Ireland, had been very useful, but both sides acknowledged disagreements over whether Assad should step down and if rebel groups should receive arms from the west.\u2022 David Cameron pressed fellow G8 leaders to forge an agreement around five principles for a Syria peace conference due to take place next month in Geneva. The principles risk isolating Russia as they include backing a transition government in Syria that would hold executive powers over all institutions, including the army.\u2022 Israel's president, Shimon Peres, has thrown his weight behind US plans to arm Syrian rebels, shrugging off fears the weapons could be turned on Israel and exacerbate the conflict. In an interview with Reuters, he said:\u00a0\"They didn't have a choice ...\u00a0Unfortunately it is becoming more of a confrontation between two superpowers and (there is) a growing intervention of outside forces ... It is a tragedy.\"\u2022 Obama has announced an extra $300m in aid to help tackle the humanitarian crisis sparked by the conflict in Syria. The US urged countries neighbouring Syria to keep their borders open to Syrian refugees.\u00a0\u2022 President Mohamed Morsi has appointed a member of the hardline Islamist group Gamaa Islamiya to the governorship of Luxor \u2013 a tourist city in which militants associated with the group killed 58 tourists in 1997.\u00a0The symbolism of the appointment has enraged Egypt's sidelined non-Islamist opposition, who see it as further evidence that Morsi is unconcerned about the country's increasing polarisation.\u2022 Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, has promised to reduce tensions with the west, show more transparency on its nuclear front and bring moderation back to the forefront of Iranian politics.\u00a0In his first press conference in Tehran, Rouhani presented himself as a moderate politician willing to \"enhance mutual trust\" between Tehran and the international community, including Britain and the US, and as the saviour of the Iranian economy by working to lift sanctions.\u2022 Turkey\u2019s leaders are prepared to use the armed forces against protesters if they consider it necessary, the deputy prime minister has warned.\u00a0With protesters and police continuing to skirmish in Istanbul and the capital, Ankara, the warning from\u00a0B\u00fclent Ar\u0131n\u00e7 was a significant rhetorical escalation in the crackdown on\u00a0anti-government demonstrations, the Washington Post reports.Updated at 9.57am BST", "tags": ["Syria", "Bashar al-Assad", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Iran", "Egypt", "Turkey", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "Refugees", "World news", "Chemical weapons"], "title": "Syria crisis: Russia faces isolation at G8"},{"date": "2013-06-11T16:19:29Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia's parliament has unanimously passed a federal law banning gay \"propaganda\" amid a Kremlin push to enshrine deeply conservative values that critics say has already led to a sharp increase in anti-gay violence.The law passed 436-0 on Tuesday, with just one deputy abstaining from voting on the bill, which bans the spreading of \"propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations\" among minors.The law in effect makes it illegal to equate straight and gay relationships, as well as the distribution of material on gay rights. It introduces fines for individuals and media groups found guilty of breaking the law, as well as special fines for foreigners.Minutes after passing the anti-gay legislation, the Duma also approved a new law allowing jail sentences of up to three years for \"offending religious feelings\", an initiative launched in the wake of the trial against the anti-Kremlin punk band Pussy Riot.The two laws were widely criticised by Russia's marginalised liberal and human rights communities and come amid a wider crackdown against independent civil activity in the country.\"I have sincere contempt for the Duma's deputies. All, including the so-called opposition. You have now brought fascism to my country,\" wrote Yelena Kostychenko, a journalist at the independent Novaya Gazeta newspaper.International rights groups have called the current situation in Russia the worst human rights climate in the post-Soviet era.The two laws vastly boost the power of the Russian Orthodox church, a religious body that professes total allegiance to the state. Putin, who often makes a show of his faith, has increasingly called upon the church to fill his own ideological vacuum following a contested presidential election last year, accompanied by unprecedented protests against him.The case against Pussy Riot \u2013 in which three members were found guilty of \"hooliganism motivated by religious hatred\" after performing an anti-Putin anthem inside a Moscow church \u2013 was widely seen as the launch of an ultra-conservative agenda.Russia's anti-gay law, whose text was softened to remove explicit referrals to \"homosexual propaganda\", introduces fines of up to 100,000 roubles (\u00a31,975) for individuals who have used the media or internet to promote \"non-traditional relations\". Organisations can be fined up to 1m roubles and closed down for up to 90 days.The bill, which must be signed by Putin to become law, also says foreigners can be detained for up to 15 days and deported, as well as fined up to 100,000 roubles, for breaking the law.International gay rights activists, including British campaigner Peter Tatchell and US activist Dan Choi, have regularly travelled to Russia to support the country's struggling gay rights movement.Russian activists insisted they would not halt their work. \"It was totally expected \u2013 I don't take today's decision as the end of something,\" said Igor Kochetkov, the head of LGBT Network, a St Petersburg-based group.\"We insist on equal rights for all and we will continue to stand up against those patriarchal values that are today being actively promoted by the church and the government. We are doing this because we think these values, these norms, don't fit into a modern society.\"\"The government is using these instincts \u2013 homophobia, xenophobia \u2013 to justify its policies against an independent civil society,\" Kochetkov said. \"They are making enemies out of us \u2013 not just LGBT society, but any group in society that doesn't agree with their current politics.\"Clashes broke out in front of the Russian parliament on Tuesday, as around 300 activists gathered to protest for and against the bill. Police said 20 people were detained.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Vladimir Putin", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia passes law banning gay 'propaganda'"},{"date": "2013-05-17T17:17:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has defended its arms sales to Syria as being for purely defensive purposes after reports that Moscow had delivered advanced anti-ship missiles to the Damascus regime.While not directly confirming the reported arrival of Russian Yakhonts missiles, the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said Moscow's weapons sales would \"not in any way alter the balance of forces in this region or give any advantage in the fight against the opposition\".The missiles supplied to Bashar al-Assad's forces, which according to the New York Times were equipped with an advanced guidance system, appeared designed to deter any seaborne western intervention. Experts said it would be a potent weapon against any \u2013 presumably US-led \u2013 effort to enforce a naval embargo or conduct air strikes with ship-launched missiles.Meanwhile, the Wall Street Journal reported that Russia had built up its naval presence in the eastern Mediterranean and now has a dozen or more warships off the Syrian coast, one of the largest such deployments since the cold war.The Russian military moves signalled Moscow's determination to back the Assad regime and dampened hopes of a new international peace conference on Syria, involving both the government and the rebels, agreed in principle earlier this month by Lavrov and Kerry.In London, a Foreign Office spokeswoman said: \"Russia has acknowledged publicly that it provides weapons to Assad. We condemn activity which allows the regime to slaughter its own people.\"David Cameron and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both lobbied President Vladimir Putin on Friday to help organise a peace conference as soon as possible.\"The [prime minister] made clear his support for the US-Russia initiative to hold a peace conference as soon as possible and said that the UK was willing to do all it could to help,\" a Downing Street spokesman said.\"We should not lose the momentum,\" Ban said, during a visit to Russia. \"There is a high expectation that this meeting should be held as soon as possible.\" Lavrov agreed, saying the sooner the better, after an earlier meeting with Ban.The sticking point so far has been the rebels' insistence they will not talk to Assad. Moscow has been adamant there should be no preconditions to talks. Russia and Iran have given large-scale military support to Damascus, while the US and western Europe have so far held back from supplying arms to the rebels, who have instead received intermittent support from Gulf Arab states.Britain and France will this month try to persuade the European Union to lift its arms embargo to allow weapons deliveries to the opposition but will meet significant resistance to such a move in Brussels.Meanwhile the new CIA chief, John Brennan, met the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, defence minister, Moshe Ya'alon, military chief of staff, Benny Gantz, and Mossad chief, Tamir Pardo, according to reports in Israel media. The unannounced meetings followed two Israeli air strikes on weapons stores near Damascus a fortnight ago.Israel has repeatedly warned it will take action to prevent advanced or chemical weapons being transferred to the Syrian regime's Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, or falling into the hands of jihadist groups fighting alongside the Syrian opposition.According to a report in the Israeli paper Yedioth Ahronoth, the visit stemmed from \"the American fear of escalation in the region against the backdrop of [Hezbollah leader Hassan] Nasrallah's threats to act against Israel in the Golan Heights and the American sense that Israel is disappointed by the ineffectuality of the Obama administration with regard to the ongoing deterioration in Syria.\"It is assessed that Brennan was sent to Israel to co-ordinate a joint policy between the two countries and prevent Israel from taking action on its own in Syria.\"The Syrian government has warned that it will retaliate against further military action by Israel, which would risk embroiling the US ally in a regional conflict.Two shells landed in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights this week. A liitle-known Palestinian group, the Abdul Qader al-Husseini brigades, said it had fired the missiles, which if true, would make it the first time Israeli-controlled territory had been targeted. \"We are avenging all our martyrs that we lost in our war with the Zionist enemy,\" the brigades said.Three observers with Undof, the UN peacekeeping force in the Golan, were abducted by Syrian opposition forces and later released on Wednesday, the third such incident in the past two months.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Bashar al-Assad", "Russia"], "title": "Syria missile sale played down by Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-19T10:48:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on YouTubeMoscow's Tinavie currently consider themselves a septet, but those numbers change on occasion. The band includes several well-respected session musicians in the Russian capital, whose overlapping obligations pull them in various directions. Folks come and go. Whatever their collective dimensions, Tinavie just celebrated a fifth anniversary; the group first emerged as a duo in 2008, then consisting of vocalist Valentina Malysheva and guitarist Dima Zilpert. Together they have guided Tinavie through a brace of elegant albums that are deemed \"too anxious for lounge music \u2013 and too sweet to be considered underground.\" The band's newest single, equally happily to place itself nowhere in particular, involves a couple of English-language tracks, Bullets and Coldest Summer.There's more to read about the release on Far From Moscow.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-19T10:48:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on YouTubeMoscow's Tinavie currently consider themselves a septet, but those numbers change on occasion. The band includes several well-respected session musicians in the Russian capital, whose overlapping obligations pull them in various directions. Folks come and go. Whatever their collective dimensions, Tinavie just celebrated a fifth anniversary; the group first emerged as a duo in 2008, then consisting of vocalist Valentina Malysheva and guitarist Dima Zilpert. Together they have guided Tinavie through a brace of elegant albums that are deemed \"too anxious for lounge music \u2013 and too sweet to be considered underground.\" The band's newest single, equally happily to place itself nowhere in particular, involves a couple of English-language tracks, Bullets and Coldest Summer.There's more to read about the release on Far From Moscow.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-17T09:59:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden is living under guard at a secret location in Russia, but is able to travel around the country freely without being recognised, according to the Russian lawyer of the former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor.\"We believe the danger remains quite high and, as I see it, it is impossible at the moment to reveal where he's living or to talk openly about it,\" said Anatoly Kucherena in an interview with the Kremlin-funded television channel Russia Today, excerpts of which were released on Tuesdayyesterday.Kucherena said Snowden had security protection, but was evasive about whether this was provided by the Russian state, noting that there were many private security firms in Russia.Snowden is wanted by the US for leaking details of government surveillance programmes to the Guardian. He has not been seen in public since he landed in Moscow on a flight from Hong Kong in June. He spent several weeks in the transit zone of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, before he was granted asylum by Russia and left the airport on 1 August.A meeting that Snowden held with human rights activists during his time at the airport and a grainy photograph of him getting into a car when leaving Sheremetyevo are the only traces left by the fugitive whistleblower.Western diplomats and Russian government sources say they have no idea where he is staying or whether he has the protection of the Russian state or its security services.President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB spy, referred this month to Snowden as \"a strange guy\" and said life in Russia would not be easy for him.\"In effect, he condemned himself to a rather difficult life,\" said Putin. \"I do not have the faintest idea about what he will do next.\"According to Kucherena, Snowden has been moving unimpeded around Russia, despite the secrecy.\"He walks around. He can travel. He does travel, because he is interested in our history,\" said the lawyer, adding that nobody had yet recognised Snowden on his travels.Kucherena admitted it was unlikely that the US government would attempt an audacious operation on Russian soil to capture Snowden, but said he had to remain vigilant. \"I don't think that is going to happen but we saw American special forces intervening in other countries. Also, our citizens get detained abroad and transferred to US territory.\"He said that Snowden had \"the same rights and responsibilities as any Russian citizen\" and had received a large number of job offers, as well as messages from Russians offering to help.One of the more unusual suggestions came from a 50-year-old woman, who inquired whether it might be possible to adopt Snowden.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "Data protection", "Vladimir Putin", "Surveillance"], "title": "Edward Snowden 'living incognito in Russia'"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-19T10:48:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on YouTubeMoscow's Tinavie currently consider themselves a septet, but those numbers change on occasion. The band includes several well-respected session musicians in the Russian capital, whose overlapping obligations pull them in various directions. Folks come and go. Whatever their collective dimensions, Tinavie just celebrated a fifth anniversary; the group first emerged as a duo in 2008, then consisting of vocalist Valentina Malysheva and guitarist Dima Zilpert. Together they have guided Tinavie through a brace of elegant albums that are deemed \"too anxious for lounge music \u2013 and too sweet to be considered underground.\" The band's newest single, equally happily to place itself nowhere in particular, involves a couple of English-language tracks, Bullets and Coldest Summer.There's more to read about the release on Far From Moscow.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-17T09:59:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden is living under guard at a secret location in Russia, but is able to travel around the country freely without being recognised, according to the Russian lawyer of the former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor.\"We believe the danger remains quite high and, as I see it, it is impossible at the moment to reveal where he's living or to talk openly about it,\" said Anatoly Kucherena in an interview with the Kremlin-funded television channel Russia Today, excerpts of which were released on Tuesdayyesterday.Kucherena said Snowden had security protection, but was evasive about whether this was provided by the Russian state, noting that there were many private security firms in Russia.Snowden is wanted by the US for leaking details of government surveillance programmes to the Guardian. He has not been seen in public since he landed in Moscow on a flight from Hong Kong in June. He spent several weeks in the transit zone of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, before he was granted asylum by Russia and left the airport on 1 August.A meeting that Snowden held with human rights activists during his time at the airport and a grainy photograph of him getting into a car when leaving Sheremetyevo are the only traces left by the fugitive whistleblower.Western diplomats and Russian government sources say they have no idea where he is staying or whether he has the protection of the Russian state or its security services.President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB spy, referred this month to Snowden as \"a strange guy\" and said life in Russia would not be easy for him.\"In effect, he condemned himself to a rather difficult life,\" said Putin. \"I do not have the faintest idea about what he will do next.\"According to Kucherena, Snowden has been moving unimpeded around Russia, despite the secrecy.\"He walks around. He can travel. He does travel, because he is interested in our history,\" said the lawyer, adding that nobody had yet recognised Snowden on his travels.Kucherena admitted it was unlikely that the US government would attempt an audacious operation on Russian soil to capture Snowden, but said he had to remain vigilant. \"I don't think that is going to happen but we saw American special forces intervening in other countries. Also, our citizens get detained abroad and transferred to US territory.\"He said that Snowden had \"the same rights and responsibilities as any Russian citizen\" and had received a large number of job offers, as well as messages from Russians offering to help.One of the more unusual suggestions came from a 50-year-old woman, who inquired whether it might be possible to adopt Snowden.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "Data protection", "Vladimir Putin", "Surveillance"], "title": "Edward Snowden 'living incognito in Russia'"},{"date": "2013-09-12T11:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Recent events surrounding Syria have prompted me to speak directly to the American people and their political leaders. It is important to do so at a time of insufficient communication between our societies.Relations between us have passed through different stages. We stood against each other during the cold war. But we were also allies once, and defeated the Nazis together. The universal international organization \u2013 the United Nations \u2013 was then established to prevent such devastation from ever happening again.The United Nations' founders understood that decisions affecting war and peace should happen only by consensus, and with America's consent the veto by security council permanent members was enshrined in the United Nations charter. The profound wisdom of this has underpinned the stability of international relations for decades.No one wants the United Nations to suffer the fate of the League of Nations, which collapsed because it lacked real leverage. This is possible if influential countries bypass the United Nations and take military action without security council authorisation.The potential strike by the United States against Syria, despite strong opposition from many countries and major political and religious leaders, including the pope, will result in more innocent victims and escalation, potentially spreading the conflict far beyond Syria's borders. A strike would increase violence and unleash a new wave of terrorism. It could undermine multilateral efforts to resolve the Iranian nuclear problem and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and further destabilise the Middle East and North Africa. It could throw the entire system of international law and order out of balance.Syria is not witnessing a battle for democracy, but an armed conflict between government and opposition in a multireligious country. There are few champions of democracy in Syria. But there are more than enough al-Qaida fighters and extremists of all stripes battling the government. The United States State Department has designated al-Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, fighting with the opposition, as terrorist organisations. This internal conflict, fueled by foreign weapons supplied to the opposition, is one of the bloodiest in the world.Mercenaries from Arab countries fighting there, and hundreds of militants from western countries and even Russia, are an issue of our deep concern. Might they not return to our countries with experience acquired in Syria? After all, after fighting in Libya, extremists moved on to Mali. This threatens us all.From the outset, Russia has advocated peaceful dialogue enabling Syrians to develop a compromise plan for their own future. We are not protecting the Syrian government, but international law. We need to use the United Nations security council and believe that preserving law and order in today's complex and turbulent world is one of the few ways to keep international relations from sliding into chaos. The law is still the law, and we must follow it whether we like it or not. Under current international law, force is permitted only in self-defense or by the decision of the security council. Anything else is unacceptable under the United Nations charter and would constitute an act of aggression.No one doubts that poison gas was used in Syria. But there is every reason to believe it was used not by the Syrian army, but by opposition forces, to provoke intervention by their powerful foreign patrons, who would be siding with the fundamentalists. Reports that militants are preparing another attack \u2013 this time against Israel \u2013 cannot be ignored.It is alarming that military intervention in internal conflicts in foreign countries has become commonplace for the United States. Is it in America's long-term interest? I doubt it. Millions around the world increasingly see America not as a model of democracy but as relying solely on brute force, cobbling coalitions together under the slogan \"you're either with us or against us\".But force has proved ineffective and pointless. Afghanistan is reeling, and no one can say what will happen after international forces withdraw. Libya is divided into tribes and clans. In Iraq the civil war continues, with dozens killed each day. In the United States, many draw an analogy between Iraq and Syria, and ask why their government would want to repeat recent mistakes.No matter how targeted the strikes or how sophisticated the weapons, civilian casualties are inevitable, including the elderly and children, whom the strikes are meant to protect.The world reacts by asking: if you cannot count on international law, then you must find other ways to ensure your security. Thus a growing number of countries seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction. This is logical: if you have the bomb, no one will touch you. We are left with talk of the need to strengthen nonproliferation, when in reality this is being eroded.We must stop using the language of force and return to the path of civilized diplomatic and political settlement.A new opportunity to avoid military action has emerged in the past few days. The United States, Russia and all members of the international community must take advantage of the Syrian government's willingness to place its chemical arsenal under international control for subsequent destruction. Judging by the statements of President Obama, the United States sees this as an alternative to military action.I welcome the president's interest in continuing the dialogue with Russia on Syria. We must work together to keep this hope alive, as we agreed to at the Group of 8 meeting in Lough Erne in Northern Ireland in June, and steer the discussion back toward negotiations.If we can avoid force against Syria, this will improve the atmosphere in international affairs and strengthen mutual trust. It will be our shared success and open the door to cooperation on other critical issues.My working and personal relationship with President Obama is marked by growing trust. I appreciate this. I carefully studied his address to the nation on Tuesday. And I would rather disagree with a case he made on American exceptionalism, stating that the United States' policy is \"what makes America different. It's what makes us exceptional\". It is extremely dangerous to encourage people to see themselves as exceptional, whatever the motivation. There are big countries and small countries, rich and poor, those with long democratic traditions and those still finding their way to democracy. Their policies differ, too. We are all different, but when we ask for the Lord's blessings, we must not forget that God created us equal.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "United Nations"], "title": "A plea for caution from Russia | Vladimir Putin"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-19T10:48:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on YouTubeMoscow's Tinavie currently consider themselves a septet, but those numbers change on occasion. The band includes several well-respected session musicians in the Russian capital, whose overlapping obligations pull them in various directions. Folks come and go. Whatever their collective dimensions, Tinavie just celebrated a fifth anniversary; the group first emerged as a duo in 2008, then consisting of vocalist Valentina Malysheva and guitarist Dima Zilpert. Together they have guided Tinavie through a brace of elegant albums that are deemed \"too anxious for lounge music \u2013 and too sweet to be considered underground.\" The band's newest single, equally happily to place itself nowhere in particular, involves a couple of English-language tracks, Bullets and Coldest Summer.There's more to read about the release on Far From Moscow.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-17T09:59:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden is living under guard at a secret location in Russia, but is able to travel around the country freely without being recognised, according to the Russian lawyer of the former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor.\"We believe the danger remains quite high and, as I see it, it is impossible at the moment to reveal where he's living or to talk openly about it,\" said Anatoly Kucherena in an interview with the Kremlin-funded television channel Russia Today, excerpts of which were released on Tuesdayyesterday.Kucherena said Snowden had security protection, but was evasive about whether this was provided by the Russian state, noting that there were many private security firms in Russia.Snowden is wanted by the US for leaking details of government surveillance programmes to the Guardian. He has not been seen in public since he landed in Moscow on a flight from Hong Kong in June. He spent several weeks in the transit zone of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, before he was granted asylum by Russia and left the airport on 1 August.A meeting that Snowden held with human rights activists during his time at the airport and a grainy photograph of him getting into a car when leaving Sheremetyevo are the only traces left by the fugitive whistleblower.Western diplomats and Russian government sources say they have no idea where he is staying or whether he has the protection of the Russian state or its security services.President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB spy, referred this month to Snowden as \"a strange guy\" and said life in Russia would not be easy for him.\"In effect, he condemned himself to a rather difficult life,\" said Putin. \"I do not have the faintest idea about what he will do next.\"According to Kucherena, Snowden has been moving unimpeded around Russia, despite the secrecy.\"He walks around. He can travel. He does travel, because he is interested in our history,\" said the lawyer, adding that nobody had yet recognised Snowden on his travels.Kucherena admitted it was unlikely that the US government would attempt an audacious operation on Russian soil to capture Snowden, but said he had to remain vigilant. \"I don't think that is going to happen but we saw American special forces intervening in other countries. Also, our citizens get detained abroad and transferred to US territory.\"He said that Snowden had \"the same rights and responsibilities as any Russian citizen\" and had received a large number of job offers, as well as messages from Russians offering to help.One of the more unusual suggestions came from a 50-year-old woman, who inquired whether it might be possible to adopt Snowden.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "Data protection", "Vladimir Putin", "Surveillance"], "title": "Edward Snowden 'living incognito in Russia'"},{"date": "2013-09-12T11:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Recent events surrounding Syria have prompted me to speak directly to the American people and their political leaders. It is important to do so at a time of insufficient communication between our societies.Relations between us have passed through different stages. We stood against each other during the cold war. But we were also allies once, and defeated the Nazis together. The universal international organization \u2013 the United Nations \u2013 was then established to prevent such devastation from ever happening again.The United Nations' founders understood that decisions affecting war and peace should happen only by consensus, and with America's consent the veto by security council permanent members was enshrined in the United Nations charter. The profound wisdom of this has underpinned the stability of international relations for decades.No one wants the United Nations to suffer the fate of the League of Nations, which collapsed because it lacked real leverage. This is possible if influential countries bypass the United Nations and take military action without security council authorisation.The potential strike by the United States against Syria, despite strong opposition from many countries and major political and religious leaders, including the pope, will result in more innocent victims and escalation, potentially spreading the conflict far beyond Syria's borders. A strike would increase violence and unleash a new wave of terrorism. It could undermine multilateral efforts to resolve the Iranian nuclear problem and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and further destabilise the Middle East and North Africa. It could throw the entire system of international law and order out of balance.Syria is not witnessing a battle for democracy, but an armed conflict between government and opposition in a multireligious country. There are few champions of democracy in Syria. But there are more than enough al-Qaida fighters and extremists of all stripes battling the government. The United States State Department has designated al-Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, fighting with the opposition, as terrorist organisations. This internal conflict, fueled by foreign weapons supplied to the opposition, is one of the bloodiest in the world.Mercenaries from Arab countries fighting there, and hundreds of militants from western countries and even Russia, are an issue of our deep concern. Might they not return to our countries with experience acquired in Syria? After all, after fighting in Libya, extremists moved on to Mali. This threatens us all.From the outset, Russia has advocated peaceful dialogue enabling Syrians to develop a compromise plan for their own future. We are not protecting the Syrian government, but international law. We need to use the United Nations security council and believe that preserving law and order in today's complex and turbulent world is one of the few ways to keep international relations from sliding into chaos. The law is still the law, and we must follow it whether we like it or not. Under current international law, force is permitted only in self-defense or by the decision of the security council. Anything else is unacceptable under the United Nations charter and would constitute an act of aggression.No one doubts that poison gas was used in Syria. But there is every reason to believe it was used not by the Syrian army, but by opposition forces, to provoke intervention by their powerful foreign patrons, who would be siding with the fundamentalists. Reports that militants are preparing another attack \u2013 this time against Israel \u2013 cannot be ignored.It is alarming that military intervention in internal conflicts in foreign countries has become commonplace for the United States. Is it in America's long-term interest? I doubt it. Millions around the world increasingly see America not as a model of democracy but as relying solely on brute force, cobbling coalitions together under the slogan \"you're either with us or against us\".But force has proved ineffective and pointless. Afghanistan is reeling, and no one can say what will happen after international forces withdraw. Libya is divided into tribes and clans. In Iraq the civil war continues, with dozens killed each day. In the United States, many draw an analogy between Iraq and Syria, and ask why their government would want to repeat recent mistakes.No matter how targeted the strikes or how sophisticated the weapons, civilian casualties are inevitable, including the elderly and children, whom the strikes are meant to protect.The world reacts by asking: if you cannot count on international law, then you must find other ways to ensure your security. Thus a growing number of countries seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction. This is logical: if you have the bomb, no one will touch you. We are left with talk of the need to strengthen nonproliferation, when in reality this is being eroded.We must stop using the language of force and return to the path of civilized diplomatic and political settlement.A new opportunity to avoid military action has emerged in the past few days. The United States, Russia and all members of the international community must take advantage of the Syrian government's willingness to place its chemical arsenal under international control for subsequent destruction. Judging by the statements of President Obama, the United States sees this as an alternative to military action.I welcome the president's interest in continuing the dialogue with Russia on Syria. We must work together to keep this hope alive, as we agreed to at the Group of 8 meeting in Lough Erne in Northern Ireland in June, and steer the discussion back toward negotiations.If we can avoid force against Syria, this will improve the atmosphere in international affairs and strengthen mutual trust. It will be our shared success and open the door to cooperation on other critical issues.My working and personal relationship with President Obama is marked by growing trust. I appreciate this. I carefully studied his address to the nation on Tuesday. And I would rather disagree with a case he made on American exceptionalism, stating that the United States' policy is \"what makes America different. It's what makes us exceptional\". It is extremely dangerous to encourage people to see themselves as exceptional, whatever the motivation. There are big countries and small countries, rich and poor, those with long democratic traditions and those still finding their way to democracy. Their policies differ, too. We are all different, but when we ask for the Lord's blessings, we must not forget that God created us equal.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "United Nations"], "title": "A plea for caution from Russia | Vladimir Putin"},{"date": "2013-09-09T23:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If Russia does persuade Syria to surrender its chemical arsenal, it could put off the threat of direct US military action for months at least, but it will also enmesh Damascus in new international obligations that could strengthen the case for outside intervention if it ever breaks the rules.The process offers Damascus an obvious avenue to buy time. It would be very hard politically, both at home and abroad, for the Obama administration to take military action while the process was under way. But at the same time, Syria's legal obligations would deepen with every passing day.\"It's a way of avoiding an escalation of the conflict by external powers, so it could be a good start. It would strengthen the Chemical Weapons Convention [CWC],\" said Michael Elleman, senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. \"My concern is that the Russians don't have that leverage on Assad. The other questions are how long is it going to take, will it involve just the weapons stockpile or the whole production programme, and who would maintain security while this process is under way?\"Syria is thought to have up to 40 sites where either chemical weapons or precursors for mustard gas and nerve agents such as sarin and possibly VX are stored. As the civil war has intensified it is possible that the weapons have been dispersed even further. Elleman said there were some reports that the binary precursors for nerve agents were being mixed in the field by the military units responsible for them. That would complicate any accounting and verification exercise \u2013 and make their removal and destruction a logistical nightmare.\"It could be done but if you are going to try to transport the weapons there would be all sorts of practicalities,\" said Richard Guthrie, a British expert on chemical and biological warfare. \"You would have to put UN troops in and feed and water them, and protect them. If you move these weapons, they could leak. If you destroy them in situ, it depends where they are. You could create a buffer zone around them, but these weapons are likely to be in military bases, and is the regime going to agree that nothing can happen in a 10km radius including those bases?\"If Syria is serious, the first step would be for Bashar al-Assad to sign an agreement to join the CWC. Thirty days after the accession document had been submitted to the UN secretary general, Syria would officially become the 190th state party to the agreement. After that, the convention would become binding, any use or stockpiling of chemical agents or munitions would become illegal, and the country would have to submit to emergency inspections at 24 hours notice if it was accused of cheating.After signing the CWC, Syria would have to provide a full account of its stockpile, at which point it would either have to admit what it has produced, and state whether it has retained full stewardship of its weapons, or concede it had lost control. The regime would then have to admit inspectors from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), based in The Hague, to verify the stockpile and seal the weapons and chemical vats.Under the convention iIt is the job of the state joining the treaty and surrendering its weapons to carry out the destruction under OPCW supervision, and pay for the process. Destroying vats of chemicals is relatively straightforward. They are poured into special machines that blend them with neutralising agents. Dismantling bombs and missiles that have already been armed with chemicals is more complicated, and requires a blast-containment vessel to carry out the tricky and dangerous procedure.The timing of the declaration, verification and destruction of the weapons is all a matter of negotiation with the OPCW, which can lay down a timetable, but has to listen to appeals from the state if it believes it is too rushed. Syria would not be the first state to surrender its chemical weapons. Seven countries have done so in the 16-year existence of the OPCW: Albania, India, US, Russia, Japan, Libya and an anonymous country widely believed to be South Korea, have all destroyed or are in the process of destroying their stockpiles.Russia and the US have yet to destroy their cold war stocks entirely. The closest parallel with Syria is Libya, which started to destroy its stockpile under OPCW supervision in October 2010, and was just over halfway through when the Gaddafi regime fell. After a new government took over it took up to 18 months to set up the infrastructure again. Libya has now destroyed all its chemical reserves in vats but has recently come across some previously undeclared chemically armed shells that will take several more months to dismantle.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Chemical weapons", "Arab and Middle East unrest"], "title": "Can Russia push Syria to disarm?"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-19T10:48:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on YouTubeMoscow's Tinavie currently consider themselves a septet, but those numbers change on occasion. The band includes several well-respected session musicians in the Russian capital, whose overlapping obligations pull them in various directions. Folks come and go. Whatever their collective dimensions, Tinavie just celebrated a fifth anniversary; the group first emerged as a duo in 2008, then consisting of vocalist Valentina Malysheva and guitarist Dima Zilpert. Together they have guided Tinavie through a brace of elegant albums that are deemed \"too anxious for lounge music \u2013 and too sweet to be considered underground.\" The band's newest single, equally happily to place itself nowhere in particular, involves a couple of English-language tracks, Bullets and Coldest Summer.There's more to read about the release on Far From Moscow.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-17T09:59:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden is living under guard at a secret location in Russia, but is able to travel around the country freely without being recognised, according to the Russian lawyer of the former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor.\"We believe the danger remains quite high and, as I see it, it is impossible at the moment to reveal where he's living or to talk openly about it,\" said Anatoly Kucherena in an interview with the Kremlin-funded television channel Russia Today, excerpts of which were released on Tuesdayyesterday.Kucherena said Snowden had security protection, but was evasive about whether this was provided by the Russian state, noting that there were many private security firms in Russia.Snowden is wanted by the US for leaking details of government surveillance programmes to the Guardian. He has not been seen in public since he landed in Moscow on a flight from Hong Kong in June. He spent several weeks in the transit zone of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, before he was granted asylum by Russia and left the airport on 1 August.A meeting that Snowden held with human rights activists during his time at the airport and a grainy photograph of him getting into a car when leaving Sheremetyevo are the only traces left by the fugitive whistleblower.Western diplomats and Russian government sources say they have no idea where he is staying or whether he has the protection of the Russian state or its security services.President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB spy, referred this month to Snowden as \"a strange guy\" and said life in Russia would not be easy for him.\"In effect, he condemned himself to a rather difficult life,\" said Putin. \"I do not have the faintest idea about what he will do next.\"According to Kucherena, Snowden has been moving unimpeded around Russia, despite the secrecy.\"He walks around. He can travel. He does travel, because he is interested in our history,\" said the lawyer, adding that nobody had yet recognised Snowden on his travels.Kucherena admitted it was unlikely that the US government would attempt an audacious operation on Russian soil to capture Snowden, but said he had to remain vigilant. \"I don't think that is going to happen but we saw American special forces intervening in other countries. Also, our citizens get detained abroad and transferred to US territory.\"He said that Snowden had \"the same rights and responsibilities as any Russian citizen\" and had received a large number of job offers, as well as messages from Russians offering to help.One of the more unusual suggestions came from a 50-year-old woman, who inquired whether it might be possible to adopt Snowden.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "Data protection", "Vladimir Putin", "Surveillance"], "title": "Edward Snowden 'living incognito in Russia'"},{"date": "2013-09-12T11:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Recent events surrounding Syria have prompted me to speak directly to the American people and their political leaders. It is important to do so at a time of insufficient communication between our societies.Relations between us have passed through different stages. We stood against each other during the cold war. But we were also allies once, and defeated the Nazis together. The universal international organization \u2013 the United Nations \u2013 was then established to prevent such devastation from ever happening again.The United Nations' founders understood that decisions affecting war and peace should happen only by consensus, and with America's consent the veto by security council permanent members was enshrined in the United Nations charter. The profound wisdom of this has underpinned the stability of international relations for decades.No one wants the United Nations to suffer the fate of the League of Nations, which collapsed because it lacked real leverage. This is possible if influential countries bypass the United Nations and take military action without security council authorisation.The potential strike by the United States against Syria, despite strong opposition from many countries and major political and religious leaders, including the pope, will result in more innocent victims and escalation, potentially spreading the conflict far beyond Syria's borders. A strike would increase violence and unleash a new wave of terrorism. It could undermine multilateral efforts to resolve the Iranian nuclear problem and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and further destabilise the Middle East and North Africa. It could throw the entire system of international law and order out of balance.Syria is not witnessing a battle for democracy, but an armed conflict between government and opposition in a multireligious country. There are few champions of democracy in Syria. But there are more than enough al-Qaida fighters and extremists of all stripes battling the government. The United States State Department has designated al-Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, fighting with the opposition, as terrorist organisations. This internal conflict, fueled by foreign weapons supplied to the opposition, is one of the bloodiest in the world.Mercenaries from Arab countries fighting there, and hundreds of militants from western countries and even Russia, are an issue of our deep concern. Might they not return to our countries with experience acquired in Syria? After all, after fighting in Libya, extremists moved on to Mali. This threatens us all.From the outset, Russia has advocated peaceful dialogue enabling Syrians to develop a compromise plan for their own future. We are not protecting the Syrian government, but international law. We need to use the United Nations security council and believe that preserving law and order in today's complex and turbulent world is one of the few ways to keep international relations from sliding into chaos. The law is still the law, and we must follow it whether we like it or not. Under current international law, force is permitted only in self-defense or by the decision of the security council. Anything else is unacceptable under the United Nations charter and would constitute an act of aggression.No one doubts that poison gas was used in Syria. But there is every reason to believe it was used not by the Syrian army, but by opposition forces, to provoke intervention by their powerful foreign patrons, who would be siding with the fundamentalists. Reports that militants are preparing another attack \u2013 this time against Israel \u2013 cannot be ignored.It is alarming that military intervention in internal conflicts in foreign countries has become commonplace for the United States. Is it in America's long-term interest? I doubt it. Millions around the world increasingly see America not as a model of democracy but as relying solely on brute force, cobbling coalitions together under the slogan \"you're either with us or against us\".But force has proved ineffective and pointless. Afghanistan is reeling, and no one can say what will happen after international forces withdraw. Libya is divided into tribes and clans. In Iraq the civil war continues, with dozens killed each day. In the United States, many draw an analogy between Iraq and Syria, and ask why their government would want to repeat recent mistakes.No matter how targeted the strikes or how sophisticated the weapons, civilian casualties are inevitable, including the elderly and children, whom the strikes are meant to protect.The world reacts by asking: if you cannot count on international law, then you must find other ways to ensure your security. Thus a growing number of countries seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction. This is logical: if you have the bomb, no one will touch you. We are left with talk of the need to strengthen nonproliferation, when in reality this is being eroded.We must stop using the language of force and return to the path of civilized diplomatic and political settlement.A new opportunity to avoid military action has emerged in the past few days. The United States, Russia and all members of the international community must take advantage of the Syrian government's willingness to place its chemical arsenal under international control for subsequent destruction. Judging by the statements of President Obama, the United States sees this as an alternative to military action.I welcome the president's interest in continuing the dialogue with Russia on Syria. We must work together to keep this hope alive, as we agreed to at the Group of 8 meeting in Lough Erne in Northern Ireland in June, and steer the discussion back toward negotiations.If we can avoid force against Syria, this will improve the atmosphere in international affairs and strengthen mutual trust. It will be our shared success and open the door to cooperation on other critical issues.My working and personal relationship with President Obama is marked by growing trust. I appreciate this. I carefully studied his address to the nation on Tuesday. And I would rather disagree with a case he made on American exceptionalism, stating that the United States' policy is \"what makes America different. It's what makes us exceptional\". It is extremely dangerous to encourage people to see themselves as exceptional, whatever the motivation. There are big countries and small countries, rich and poor, those with long democratic traditions and those still finding their way to democracy. Their policies differ, too. We are all different, but when we ask for the Lord's blessings, we must not forget that God created us equal.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "United Nations"], "title": "A plea for caution from Russia | Vladimir Putin"},{"date": "2013-09-09T23:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If Russia does persuade Syria to surrender its chemical arsenal, it could put off the threat of direct US military action for months at least, but it will also enmesh Damascus in new international obligations that could strengthen the case for outside intervention if it ever breaks the rules.The process offers Damascus an obvious avenue to buy time. It would be very hard politically, both at home and abroad, for the Obama administration to take military action while the process was under way. But at the same time, Syria's legal obligations would deepen with every passing day.\"It's a way of avoiding an escalation of the conflict by external powers, so it could be a good start. It would strengthen the Chemical Weapons Convention [CWC],\" said Michael Elleman, senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. \"My concern is that the Russians don't have that leverage on Assad. The other questions are how long is it going to take, will it involve just the weapons stockpile or the whole production programme, and who would maintain security while this process is under way?\"Syria is thought to have up to 40 sites where either chemical weapons or precursors for mustard gas and nerve agents such as sarin and possibly VX are stored. As the civil war has intensified it is possible that the weapons have been dispersed even further. Elleman said there were some reports that the binary precursors for nerve agents were being mixed in the field by the military units responsible for them. That would complicate any accounting and verification exercise \u2013 and make their removal and destruction a logistical nightmare.\"It could be done but if you are going to try to transport the weapons there would be all sorts of practicalities,\" said Richard Guthrie, a British expert on chemical and biological warfare. \"You would have to put UN troops in and feed and water them, and protect them. If you move these weapons, they could leak. If you destroy them in situ, it depends where they are. You could create a buffer zone around them, but these weapons are likely to be in military bases, and is the regime going to agree that nothing can happen in a 10km radius including those bases?\"If Syria is serious, the first step would be for Bashar al-Assad to sign an agreement to join the CWC. Thirty days after the accession document had been submitted to the UN secretary general, Syria would officially become the 190th state party to the agreement. After that, the convention would become binding, any use or stockpiling of chemical agents or munitions would become illegal, and the country would have to submit to emergency inspections at 24 hours notice if it was accused of cheating.After signing the CWC, Syria would have to provide a full account of its stockpile, at which point it would either have to admit what it has produced, and state whether it has retained full stewardship of its weapons, or concede it had lost control. The regime would then have to admit inspectors from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), based in The Hague, to verify the stockpile and seal the weapons and chemical vats.Under the convention iIt is the job of the state joining the treaty and surrendering its weapons to carry out the destruction under OPCW supervision, and pay for the process. Destroying vats of chemicals is relatively straightforward. They are poured into special machines that blend them with neutralising agents. Dismantling bombs and missiles that have already been armed with chemicals is more complicated, and requires a blast-containment vessel to carry out the tricky and dangerous procedure.The timing of the declaration, verification and destruction of the weapons is all a matter of negotiation with the OPCW, which can lay down a timetable, but has to listen to appeals from the state if it believes it is too rushed. Syria would not be the first state to surrender its chemical weapons. Seven countries have done so in the 16-year existence of the OPCW: Albania, India, US, Russia, Japan, Libya and an anonymous country widely believed to be South Korea, have all destroyed or are in the process of destroying their stockpiles.Russia and the US have yet to destroy their cold war stocks entirely. The closest parallel with Syria is Libya, which started to destroy its stockpile under OPCW supervision in October 2010, and was just over halfway through when the Gaddafi regime fell. After a new government took over it took up to 18 months to set up the infrastructure again. Libya has now destroyed all its chemical reserves in vats but has recently come across some previously undeclared chemically armed shells that will take several more months to dismantle.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Chemical weapons", "Arab and Middle East unrest"], "title": "Can Russia push Syria to disarm?"},{"date": "2013-08-06T18:40:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have detained hundreds of migrant workers in a makeshift camp in Moscow as part of a widespread crackdown on illegal immigration.Human rights campaigners have decried conditions in the camp, which is part of a planned national network of detainment centres to hold foreign nationals facing deportation.More than 600 people were initially held in tents in the camp in an industrial area of Moscow, although there were reports that 200 were moved to formal detention centres yesterday. Opponents say the centres are illegal, comparing them to concentration camps or gulags.\"The paradox of a concentration camp for illegals is that the concentration camp itself is illegal,\" writer and activist Oleg Kozyrev tweeted to more than 32,000 followers.Russia currently has 21 detention centres for immigrants facing deportation, but authorities have prepared a bill that would create 83 special centres across the country's 81 regions.The immigrant crackdown began after a fight on 27 July at a Moscow market between natives of Russia's Dagestan region and police who had come to arrest one of them on charges of rape. A relative of the wanted man struck an officer with brass knuckles, injuring his forehead. Much of the incident was captured on video in a clip widely circulated on the internet.On 29 July, police began raiding markets around the city and arresting immigrants whose documents were not in order, most of them from the Caucasus and Central Asia.Of the 11 million immigrants in Russia, about three million have exceeded their allowed stay and most of these are thought to be working illegally, according to the head of the migration service.On 31 July, law enforcement agents closed an illegal garment factory in an industrial area on the city outskirts, detaining at least 1,200 people, most of them from Vietnam. The next day police announced the creation of a temporary camp near the site of the illegal factory to hold some of the detained immigrants, who have 10 days to appeal against a deportation decision. Reporters who were allowed to visit the tents, pitched in a paved area that once held a market, described appalling conditions.The interior ministry has claimed the site has a capacity of 900, but the Novaya Gazeta newspaper found immigrants crowded into cramped, stifling tents, with four outdoor showers and a long row of portable toilets.The paper spoke to many held in the camp who had been unable to contact friends and relatives as there is no electricity to recharge their phones.\"It's not the best conditions \u2026 their telephone conversations are limited, and they're under guard like in a prison,\" said Bakhrom Khamroyev, an activist from the society Political Immigrants from Central Asia, who visited the camp.But Khamroyev said the conditions were better than those in a municipal garage he visited outside Moscow, where 30 Uzbek workers arrested in a raid on Moscow's Kommunarka market on Sunday. He said the immigrant workers, who were being guarded by men with machine guns, told him they had been beaten during the raid.Ethnic tensions have flared up in Russia, with residents of the southern city of Pugachev taking to the streets protesting against arrivals from the Caucasus region after a Russian man was stabbed to death in a fight with a Chechen teenager.\"I don't support this approach [of mass detentions] but it's legal,\" said Remat Karimov, a spokesman of the Labour Union of Migrant Workers.\"You need to wait until this is reflected in the fact that there will be no one to construct buildings, there will not be anywhere to eat in Moscow. If they employed these methods in Sochi it wouldn't be possible to hold the Olympics because the buildings are being constructed by mostly illegal immigrants.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights"], "title": "Russia detains immigrants in 'concentration camps'"},{"date": "2013-09-25T10:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Rare is the news story in current western media that inspires an affinity for Russia, its culture, or even its people. While not without foundation, the common portrait of a monolithic, anti-western, conservative-to-a-fault nation ignores the growing diversity of an evolving country and discounts its creative potential.An audience of nearly 400 people gathered earlier this month in the new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage museum in St Petersburg for the Calvert Forum, with Russia's oft-ignored creative community the centre of attention. The event featured an international panel of speakers: Ruth Mackenzie, director of the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad; Dmitry Ozerkov, director of the Hermitage museum's contemporary arts programme; Robert Eysoldt, Berlin-based creative consultant; and former Russian finance minister Alexei Kudrin.It marked the beginning of a new collaboration between St Petersburg State University's Smolny College and the London-based gallery and arts organisation, Calvert 22 Foundation, aimed at raising the profile of Russia's creative sector.Debate focused specifically on questions raised by the case of Berlin. How did Germany's once-divided capital transform itself into a global hub of creative and cultural industries? What could St Petersburg learn from its example? Any parallels between the two cities might initially seem remote, but dig deeper and the comparisons begin to mount.Both cities have been rebuilt twice. Once in the wake of the Second World War, and again 40 years later when reunification and the fall of communism required a second 'reconstruction' of sorts. Comparable in size, they each experienced a decline in population during the late 20th century, but have now returned to population growth, attracting more new arrivals each year. And both cities boast an enviable arts infrastructure, with world-class institutions serving as the anchors required for global cultural status.Where Berlin and St Petersburg depart, however, is painfully obvious. For starters, the freedom and spontaneity enjoyed by Berliners is conspicuously absent in the Russian city. The future development of Russia's creative industries is surely stymied by the country's current political climate and its opposition to political and cultural diversity. As Alexei Kudrin noted, quoting novelists Arkady and Boris Strugatsky: \"When greyness triumphs, dark forces come to power. I support a colourful world.\"Much of the discussion explored how Berlin managed the transformation from divided city to global creative hub. Rather than creating a single grand strategy, the city seems to have concentrated on building the right ecosystem for creatives.As Robert Eysoldt explained: \"You can't schedule creativity, but you can create the ideal conditions to attract the creative class required to develop creative industries and sustainable growth.\" Benefiting from strong urban foundations such as abundant cheap space, good transport, and a solid cultural infrastructure, Berlin's creative community developed a preternatural capacity for collaboration.Networks often developed naturally, but in some cases they received a timely boost from government. Create Berlin, a government-funded organisation helped finance and support design-related companies and projects throughout the city, encouraging them to develop and grow together.Building on this theme of networks, Ruth Mackenzie and Dmitry Ozerkov both argued for the importance of new ideas spread and exchanged across borders. As they pointed out, St Petersburg \u2013 built by Peter the Great as his window on the west \u2013 was founded on principles of international collaboration and cultural dialogue. The challenge for present-day St Petersburg is to remember that kind of heritage and internationalism in the face of closed-minded politics.The new contemporary art wing of the Hermitage is proof that, in cultural circles at least, there is a belief in the importance of greater openness. As Ozerkov explained, censorship during the Soviet era meant contemporary art arrived late in Russia. As a consequence it still has the power to shock much of the Russian public. The museum's commitment to new art and ideas is no small feat under those circumstances.While the challenges facing Russia's creative industries are significant, they are far from insurmountable. The panel's assessment of Russia's creative future was cautiously optimistic. Questions and comments from audience members revealed the level of energy, ambition and sophistication inherent in St Petersburg's creative classes. The big lessons from Berlin for the city are the need to create a more open and tolerant society, to broaden cultural horizons, and to build stronger, more coherent networks of creative professionals.Following the event, the Calvert Forum will research the development of the creative industries in Russia, looking at international best practice and providing practical solutions for regional and municipal policy makers. The aim of the project is to go beyond the traditional thinktank model.As the launch event in St Petersburg showed, the often-overlooked potential of Russia's creative industries is very real. It just needs to find a collaborative voice.Jonathan McClory is consultant for the Calvert Forum \u2013 follow the organisation on Twitter @Calvert_22 and Jonathan @JonathanMcCloryThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up free to become a member of the Culture Professionals Network.", "tags": ["Culture professionals network", "Development", "Policy", "Leadership", "Russia", "Art", "Art and design", "Museums", "Culture"], "title": "Creative Russia: lessons from Berlin"},{"date": "2013-07-11T21:21:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia does not have political prisoners. That was so last century. It does, alas, retain the unedifying spectacle of show trials. Mikhail Khodorkovsky is the highest-profile victim. The oligarch has spent a decade in prison after two consecutive trials (the second more legally questionable than the first) but, just as he is due to be released next year, there are hints that a third case could be on the slipway. The heaviest hint came in the form of a recent documentary from a once-independent but now wholly tainted television channel, NTV, alleging that the oligarch was behind the murder of the mayor of Nefteyugansk in 1998. Vladimir Putin himself has alleged several times that Khodorkovsky has blood on his hands.But lest anyone forget that the misrule of Russian law applies to all, the country's main opposition leader, Alexey Navalny, faces a six-year jail sentence and a 1m rouble fine on charges that he embezzled 16m roubles worth of timber from a state firm when he was advising the governor of Kirov. The charge is exactly the sort that the anti-corruption blogger himself has levelled against dozens of officials in actual cases of wrongdoing. It goes without saying that this charge is bogus and the result of a political vendetta. Prosecutions on criminal charges are proving to be a useful weapon in the Kremlin's armoury. The six years demanded by prosecutors is below the maximum 10-year sentence, but enough to keep Mr Navalny in jail for 2018, the next presidential election. It also means that he could not run in September's election for the mayor of Moscow, a city whose support United Russia, the main pro-Kremlin party, has lost. Mr Navalny used his closing remarks in his trial last week as a valedictory. The man who called United Russia a party of crooks and thieves, a label that dogged it in the Duma elections in 2011, proved to be up to the occasion. He vowed to destroy the neofeudal system in which 83% of the nation's wealth belongs to 0.5% of the people. It was an overtly political speech to a provincial court in a trial which had nothing to do with Kirov, timber or stolen money.Mr Navalny is not the sole target of the investigative committee, a Russian version of the FBI. Sergei Udaltsov, a leftwinger who forged ties with the Communist party and helped spearhead mass protests in 2012, also faces up to 10 years in prison for \"staging riots\". Some 27 people who took part in a demonstration last year on the eve of Mr Putin's inauguration to a third presidential term have also been charged. There is only one purpose of these prosecutions: to stifle dissent. Mr Putin's third presidential term is taking Russia down a familiar historical path. It is one cause of the current exodus of its intelligentsia. It could also have a disturbingly predictable violent outcome.", "tags": ["Alexei Navalny", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia: misrule of law | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-23T15:27:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Aleph Fourth way (Official) from Gero Doll on Vimeo.Aleph is a Siberian producer who first came to our attention following his work for the British Columbian net label King Deluxe. His real name is Ivan Erofeev. Raised in a small, snowbound Russian village, he has since moved to the city of Omsk and then St. Petersburg. From the outset, his Canadian colleagues have voiced Erofeev's enduring conviction that Omsk, despite its bright lights and better jobs, is always an excessively \"cold, gray\" place to live. As a result, he entertains fantasies of escaping back to the snow and trees. Erofeev, put simply, wants to get out of the city \"and dreams of living [once more] in the Siberian wilderness.\"Aleph has announced a fresh EP this month, called Fourth Way. The title is a reference to Petr Uspenskii's study of various faiths, conducted between 1921 and 1946 in search of an alternative belief system, something akin to a global synthesis of all existing models. That elusive object of desire would remain both far and the focus of much attention. Life in Omsk inspires a related social yearning \u2013 almost 1,400 miles from the Russian capital.The video for Fourth Way was produced by Gero Doll. There's more to read about the EP here.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-19T10:48:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on YouTubeMoscow's Tinavie currently consider themselves a septet, but those numbers change on occasion. The band includes several well-respected session musicians in the Russian capital, whose overlapping obligations pull them in various directions. Folks come and go. Whatever their collective dimensions, Tinavie just celebrated a fifth anniversary; the group first emerged as a duo in 2008, then consisting of vocalist Valentina Malysheva and guitarist Dima Zilpert. Together they have guided Tinavie through a brace of elegant albums that are deemed \"too anxious for lounge music \u2013 and too sweet to be considered underground.\" The band's newest single, equally happily to place itself nowhere in particular, involves a couple of English-language tracks, Bullets and Coldest Summer.There's more to read about the release on Far From Moscow.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Tinavie \u2013 Coldest Summer: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-09-17T09:59:52Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden is living under guard at a secret location in Russia, but is able to travel around the country freely without being recognised, according to the Russian lawyer of the former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor.\"We believe the danger remains quite high and, as I see it, it is impossible at the moment to reveal where he's living or to talk openly about it,\" said Anatoly Kucherena in an interview with the Kremlin-funded television channel Russia Today, excerpts of which were released on Tuesdayyesterday.Kucherena said Snowden had security protection, but was evasive about whether this was provided by the Russian state, noting that there were many private security firms in Russia.Snowden is wanted by the US for leaking details of government surveillance programmes to the Guardian. He has not been seen in public since he landed in Moscow on a flight from Hong Kong in June. He spent several weeks in the transit zone of Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, before he was granted asylum by Russia and left the airport on 1 August.A meeting that Snowden held with human rights activists during his time at the airport and a grainy photograph of him getting into a car when leaving Sheremetyevo are the only traces left by the fugitive whistleblower.Western diplomats and Russian government sources say they have no idea where he is staying or whether he has the protection of the Russian state or its security services.President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB spy, referred this month to Snowden as \"a strange guy\" and said life in Russia would not be easy for him.\"In effect, he condemned himself to a rather difficult life,\" said Putin. \"I do not have the faintest idea about what he will do next.\"According to Kucherena, Snowden has been moving unimpeded around Russia, despite the secrecy.\"He walks around. He can travel. He does travel, because he is interested in our history,\" said the lawyer, adding that nobody had yet recognised Snowden on his travels.Kucherena admitted it was unlikely that the US government would attempt an audacious operation on Russian soil to capture Snowden, but said he had to remain vigilant. \"I don't think that is going to happen but we saw American special forces intervening in other countries. Also, our citizens get detained abroad and transferred to US territory.\"He said that Snowden had \"the same rights and responsibilities as any Russian citizen\" and had received a large number of job offers, as well as messages from Russians offering to help.One of the more unusual suggestions came from a 50-year-old woman, who inquired whether it might be possible to adopt Snowden.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "Data protection", "Vladimir Putin", "Surveillance"], "title": "Edward Snowden 'living incognito in Russia'"},{"date": "2013-09-12T11:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Recent events surrounding Syria have prompted me to speak directly to the American people and their political leaders. It is important to do so at a time of insufficient communication between our societies.Relations between us have passed through different stages. We stood against each other during the cold war. But we were also allies once, and defeated the Nazis together. The universal international organization \u2013 the United Nations \u2013 was then established to prevent such devastation from ever happening again.The United Nations' founders understood that decisions affecting war and peace should happen only by consensus, and with America's consent the veto by security council permanent members was enshrined in the United Nations charter. The profound wisdom of this has underpinned the stability of international relations for decades.No one wants the United Nations to suffer the fate of the League of Nations, which collapsed because it lacked real leverage. This is possible if influential countries bypass the United Nations and take military action without security council authorisation.The potential strike by the United States against Syria, despite strong opposition from many countries and major political and religious leaders, including the pope, will result in more innocent victims and escalation, potentially spreading the conflict far beyond Syria's borders. A strike would increase violence and unleash a new wave of terrorism. It could undermine multilateral efforts to resolve the Iranian nuclear problem and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and further destabilise the Middle East and North Africa. It could throw the entire system of international law and order out of balance.Syria is not witnessing a battle for democracy, but an armed conflict between government and opposition in a multireligious country. There are few champions of democracy in Syria. But there are more than enough al-Qaida fighters and extremists of all stripes battling the government. The United States State Department has designated al-Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, fighting with the opposition, as terrorist organisations. This internal conflict, fueled by foreign weapons supplied to the opposition, is one of the bloodiest in the world.Mercenaries from Arab countries fighting there, and hundreds of militants from western countries and even Russia, are an issue of our deep concern. Might they not return to our countries with experience acquired in Syria? After all, after fighting in Libya, extremists moved on to Mali. This threatens us all.From the outset, Russia has advocated peaceful dialogue enabling Syrians to develop a compromise plan for their own future. We are not protecting the Syrian government, but international law. We need to use the United Nations security council and believe that preserving law and order in today's complex and turbulent world is one of the few ways to keep international relations from sliding into chaos. The law is still the law, and we must follow it whether we like it or not. Under current international law, force is permitted only in self-defense or by the decision of the security council. Anything else is unacceptable under the United Nations charter and would constitute an act of aggression.No one doubts that poison gas was used in Syria. But there is every reason to believe it was used not by the Syrian army, but by opposition forces, to provoke intervention by their powerful foreign patrons, who would be siding with the fundamentalists. Reports that militants are preparing another attack \u2013 this time against Israel \u2013 cannot be ignored.It is alarming that military intervention in internal conflicts in foreign countries has become commonplace for the United States. Is it in America's long-term interest? I doubt it. Millions around the world increasingly see America not as a model of democracy but as relying solely on brute force, cobbling coalitions together under the slogan \"you're either with us or against us\".But force has proved ineffective and pointless. Afghanistan is reeling, and no one can say what will happen after international forces withdraw. Libya is divided into tribes and clans. In Iraq the civil war continues, with dozens killed each day. In the United States, many draw an analogy between Iraq and Syria, and ask why their government would want to repeat recent mistakes.No matter how targeted the strikes or how sophisticated the weapons, civilian casualties are inevitable, including the elderly and children, whom the strikes are meant to protect.The world reacts by asking: if you cannot count on international law, then you must find other ways to ensure your security. Thus a growing number of countries seek to acquire weapons of mass destruction. This is logical: if you have the bomb, no one will touch you. We are left with talk of the need to strengthen nonproliferation, when in reality this is being eroded.We must stop using the language of force and return to the path of civilized diplomatic and political settlement.A new opportunity to avoid military action has emerged in the past few days. The United States, Russia and all members of the international community must take advantage of the Syrian government's willingness to place its chemical arsenal under international control for subsequent destruction. Judging by the statements of President Obama, the United States sees this as an alternative to military action.I welcome the president's interest in continuing the dialogue with Russia on Syria. We must work together to keep this hope alive, as we agreed to at the Group of 8 meeting in Lough Erne in Northern Ireland in June, and steer the discussion back toward negotiations.If we can avoid force against Syria, this will improve the atmosphere in international affairs and strengthen mutual trust. It will be our shared success and open the door to cooperation on other critical issues.My working and personal relationship with President Obama is marked by growing trust. I appreciate this. I carefully studied his address to the nation on Tuesday. And I would rather disagree with a case he made on American exceptionalism, stating that the United States' policy is \"what makes America different. It's what makes us exceptional\". It is extremely dangerous to encourage people to see themselves as exceptional, whatever the motivation. There are big countries and small countries, rich and poor, those with long democratic traditions and those still finding their way to democracy. Their policies differ, too. We are all different, but when we ask for the Lord's blessings, we must not forget that God created us equal.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "United Nations"], "title": "A plea for caution from Russia | Vladimir Putin"},{"date": "2013-09-09T23:40:54Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If Russia does persuade Syria to surrender its chemical arsenal, it could put off the threat of direct US military action for months at least, but it will also enmesh Damascus in new international obligations that could strengthen the case for outside intervention if it ever breaks the rules.The process offers Damascus an obvious avenue to buy time. It would be very hard politically, both at home and abroad, for the Obama administration to take military action while the process was under way. But at the same time, Syria's legal obligations would deepen with every passing day.\"It's a way of avoiding an escalation of the conflict by external powers, so it could be a good start. It would strengthen the Chemical Weapons Convention [CWC],\" said Michael Elleman, senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. \"My concern is that the Russians don't have that leverage on Assad. The other questions are how long is it going to take, will it involve just the weapons stockpile or the whole production programme, and who would maintain security while this process is under way?\"Syria is thought to have up to 40 sites where either chemical weapons or precursors for mustard gas and nerve agents such as sarin and possibly VX are stored. As the civil war has intensified it is possible that the weapons have been dispersed even further. Elleman said there were some reports that the binary precursors for nerve agents were being mixed in the field by the military units responsible for them. That would complicate any accounting and verification exercise \u2013 and make their removal and destruction a logistical nightmare.\"It could be done but if you are going to try to transport the weapons there would be all sorts of practicalities,\" said Richard Guthrie, a British expert on chemical and biological warfare. \"You would have to put UN troops in and feed and water them, and protect them. If you move these weapons, they could leak. If you destroy them in situ, it depends where they are. You could create a buffer zone around them, but these weapons are likely to be in military bases, and is the regime going to agree that nothing can happen in a 10km radius including those bases?\"If Syria is serious, the first step would be for Bashar al-Assad to sign an agreement to join the CWC. Thirty days after the accession document had been submitted to the UN secretary general, Syria would officially become the 190th state party to the agreement. After that, the convention would become binding, any use or stockpiling of chemical agents or munitions would become illegal, and the country would have to submit to emergency inspections at 24 hours notice if it was accused of cheating.After signing the CWC, Syria would have to provide a full account of its stockpile, at which point it would either have to admit what it has produced, and state whether it has retained full stewardship of its weapons, or concede it had lost control. The regime would then have to admit inspectors from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), based in The Hague, to verify the stockpile and seal the weapons and chemical vats.Under the convention iIt is the job of the state joining the treaty and surrendering its weapons to carry out the destruction under OPCW supervision, and pay for the process. Destroying vats of chemicals is relatively straightforward. They are poured into special machines that blend them with neutralising agents. Dismantling bombs and missiles that have already been armed with chemicals is more complicated, and requires a blast-containment vessel to carry out the tricky and dangerous procedure.The timing of the declaration, verification and destruction of the weapons is all a matter of negotiation with the OPCW, which can lay down a timetable, but has to listen to appeals from the state if it believes it is too rushed. Syria would not be the first state to surrender its chemical weapons. Seven countries have done so in the 16-year existence of the OPCW: Albania, India, US, Russia, Japan, Libya and an anonymous country widely believed to be South Korea, have all destroyed or are in the process of destroying their stockpiles.Russia and the US have yet to destroy their cold war stocks entirely. The closest parallel with Syria is Libya, which started to destroy its stockpile under OPCW supervision in October 2010, and was just over halfway through when the Gaddafi regime fell. After a new government took over it took up to 18 months to set up the infrastructure again. Libya has now destroyed all its chemical reserves in vats but has recently come across some previously undeclared chemically armed shells that will take several more months to dismantle.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Chemical weapons", "Arab and Middle East unrest"], "title": "Can Russia push Syria to disarm?"},{"date": "2013-08-06T18:40:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have detained hundreds of migrant workers in a makeshift camp in Moscow as part of a widespread crackdown on illegal immigration.Human rights campaigners have decried conditions in the camp, which is part of a planned national network of detainment centres to hold foreign nationals facing deportation.More than 600 people were initially held in tents in the camp in an industrial area of Moscow, although there were reports that 200 were moved to formal detention centres yesterday. Opponents say the centres are illegal, comparing them to concentration camps or gulags.\"The paradox of a concentration camp for illegals is that the concentration camp itself is illegal,\" writer and activist Oleg Kozyrev tweeted to more than 32,000 followers.Russia currently has 21 detention centres for immigrants facing deportation, but authorities have prepared a bill that would create 83 special centres across the country's 81 regions.The immigrant crackdown began after a fight on 27 July at a Moscow market between natives of Russia's Dagestan region and police who had come to arrest one of them on charges of rape. A relative of the wanted man struck an officer with brass knuckles, injuring his forehead. Much of the incident was captured on video in a clip widely circulated on the internet.On 29 July, police began raiding markets around the city and arresting immigrants whose documents were not in order, most of them from the Caucasus and Central Asia.Of the 11 million immigrants in Russia, about three million have exceeded their allowed stay and most of these are thought to be working illegally, according to the head of the migration service.On 31 July, law enforcement agents closed an illegal garment factory in an industrial area on the city outskirts, detaining at least 1,200 people, most of them from Vietnam. The next day police announced the creation of a temporary camp near the site of the illegal factory to hold some of the detained immigrants, who have 10 days to appeal against a deportation decision. Reporters who were allowed to visit the tents, pitched in a paved area that once held a market, described appalling conditions.The interior ministry has claimed the site has a capacity of 900, but the Novaya Gazeta newspaper found immigrants crowded into cramped, stifling tents, with four outdoor showers and a long row of portable toilets.The paper spoke to many held in the camp who had been unable to contact friends and relatives as there is no electricity to recharge their phones.\"It's not the best conditions \u2026 their telephone conversations are limited, and they're under guard like in a prison,\" said Bakhrom Khamroyev, an activist from the society Political Immigrants from Central Asia, who visited the camp.But Khamroyev said the conditions were better than those in a municipal garage he visited outside Moscow, where 30 Uzbek workers arrested in a raid on Moscow's Kommunarka market on Sunday. He said the immigrant workers, who were being guarded by men with machine guns, told him they had been beaten during the raid.Ethnic tensions have flared up in Russia, with residents of the southern city of Pugachev taking to the streets protesting against arrivals from the Caucasus region after a Russian man was stabbed to death in a fight with a Chechen teenager.\"I don't support this approach [of mass detentions] but it's legal,\" said Remat Karimov, a spokesman of the Labour Union of Migrant Workers.\"You need to wait until this is reflected in the fact that there will be no one to construct buildings, there will not be anywhere to eat in Moscow. If they employed these methods in Sochi it wouldn't be possible to hold the Olympics because the buildings are being constructed by mostly illegal immigrants.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights"], "title": "Russia detains immigrants in 'concentration camps'"},{"date": "2013-08-01T12:36:30Z", "country": "russia", "content": "National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden has been granted asylum in Russia and left the Moscow airport where he had been stranded for more than a month, according to his Russian lawyer.Anatoly Kucherena said Snowden was issued papers that allowed him to leave Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport, where he had been stuck since his arrival from Hong Kong on 23 June, according to Reuters.\"I have just seen him off. He has left for a secure location,\" Kucherena told state broadcaster Russia 24. \"Security is a very serious matter for him.\"Reports in Russia said Snowden had been granted temporary asylum for one year.According to the Associated Press, Kucherena said Snowden had accepted a condition laid down by the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to stop leaking US secrets in return for asylum.The US has been seeking Snowden's extradition to face felony charges for leaking details of NSA surveillance programmes.Snowden was stranded in the Moscow airport transit zone, which is technically not Russian territory, on 23 June, after US authorities annulled his passport while he was travelling from Hong Kong.Presidents Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin reportedly discussed the issue during a phone call in mid-July. Snowden's stay in Russia has strained relations between the two countries, with Obama reportedly reconsidering a visit planned for this autumn.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Russia", "World news", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "The NSA files", "Data protection", "Europe"], "title": "Edward Snowden granted asylum in Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:42:10Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoApproximately fifty miles south of Moscow is the town of Kolomna, founded in the twelfth century. An air of premodern calm continues to hang over its streets, which are home to\u00a0Sergey Baranov and Denis Basov, also known\u00a0as\u00a0Midimode.Discussing their latest album, Spaceability, they say:\u00a0\u201cOn one hand, we interweave multiple and complex percussive patterns. On the other, you'll hear sad and sentimental melodic lines.\u201d Intricacy and bittersweet retrospection also color a debut video, Ferrumones, in which we take a trip along local streets with a bouncing ball.\u2022 More from Far From Moscow\u2022 Long Arm: New Music from Russia\u2022 Uhuru \u2013 Y-tjukutja: New music from South Africa", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Midimode: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:42:10Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoApproximately fifty miles south of Moscow is the town of Kolomna, founded in the twelfth century. An air of premodern calm continues to hang over its streets, which are home to\u00a0Sergey Baranov and Denis Basov, also known\u00a0as\u00a0Midimode.Discussing their latest album, Spaceability, they say:\u00a0\u201cOn one hand, we interweave multiple and complex percussive patterns. On the other, you'll hear sad and sentimental melodic lines.\u201d Intricacy and bittersweet retrospection also color a debut video, Ferrumones, in which we take a trip along local streets with a bouncing ball.\u2022 More from Far From Moscow\u2022 Long Arm: New Music from Russia\u2022 Uhuru \u2013 Y-tjukutja: New music from South Africa", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Midimode: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-11T17:57:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was a lot of speculation about whether I would go to Russia this year. Many people outside the country thought I should boycott Russia because of its new homophobic legislation. Others said I must go to challenge the government.I decided in the end to be guided by what Russian people wanted me to do. The message, from even the most marginalised Russian groups we work with at the Elton John AIDS Foundation, was \"please come\". If you don't come, Aids workers and LGBT activists told us, we will feel isolated. We will miss having your voice in our debate. It might be interpreted that you don't care. Or we may be blamed for keeping you away.In Moscow I spent hours with gay activists, federal doctors, human rights lawyers and people living with HIV. They told me that since the new legislation has been adopted it's getting harder and harder to deliver basic HIV information or healthcare to gay men for fear of seeming to \"promote\" homosexuality, which is against the law. Gay people lie even to their children about their sexuality, in case it jeopardises their families.At my concert I made a statement, directly to the audience, about how sad, shocking and isolating this new law seemed to be. A young woman with a rainbow banner cheered. I realised then, with thousands of Russians cheering for a man they knew to be gay, that I had made the right decision. I believe the Russian people are decent and will be persuaded \u2013 but they need to hear us, and see we are human. They can't do that from a distance of 2,000 miles.A number of celebrities have recently declined to go to Russia, some for fear that it is unsafe. But I say to my friends \u2013 we all owe our freedoms to people who took risks with their safety for us, and faced far greater dangers than those confronting a western artist in Russia. Freedom is worth taking a risk for. Saving people from HIV is worth taking a risk for, and there is nothing that fuels the Aids epidemic more effectively than stigma and isolation. We've learnt that over 20 years of funding HIV programmes around the world, including Russia.As the Winter Olympics approaches, I know lots of athletes and artists are facing the same choice that I faced. I realise not everyone will share my view. But personally I hope and pray that prominent people will go to Russia and challenge the wrong thinking of this law. It breeds isolation, mistrust and hate, and cannot be how Russia wants to be known by the world.Thank you to everyone who came to my concerts. And thank you to the people who gave their time to talk to me about HIV and gay rights while I was in Russia. We will continue to support your important, life-saving work.\u2022 This article first appeared on ejaf.com", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Aids and HIV", "Society", "Elton John", "Pop and rock", "Music"], "title": "Elton John: why I performed in Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:42:10Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoApproximately fifty miles south of Moscow is the town of Kolomna, founded in the twelfth century. An air of premodern calm continues to hang over its streets, which are home to\u00a0Sergey Baranov and Denis Basov, also known\u00a0as\u00a0Midimode.Discussing their latest album, Spaceability, they say:\u00a0\u201cOn one hand, we interweave multiple and complex percussive patterns. On the other, you'll hear sad and sentimental melodic lines.\u201d Intricacy and bittersweet retrospection also color a debut video, Ferrumones, in which we take a trip along local streets with a bouncing ball.\u2022 More from Far From Moscow\u2022 Long Arm: New Music from Russia\u2022 Uhuru \u2013 Y-tjukutja: New music from South Africa", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Midimode: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-11T17:57:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was a lot of speculation about whether I would go to Russia this year. Many people outside the country thought I should boycott Russia because of its new homophobic legislation. Others said I must go to challenge the government.I decided in the end to be guided by what Russian people wanted me to do. The message, from even the most marginalised Russian groups we work with at the Elton John AIDS Foundation, was \"please come\". If you don't come, Aids workers and LGBT activists told us, we will feel isolated. We will miss having your voice in our debate. It might be interpreted that you don't care. Or we may be blamed for keeping you away.In Moscow I spent hours with gay activists, federal doctors, human rights lawyers and people living with HIV. They told me that since the new legislation has been adopted it's getting harder and harder to deliver basic HIV information or healthcare to gay men for fear of seeming to \"promote\" homosexuality, which is against the law. Gay people lie even to their children about their sexuality, in case it jeopardises their families.At my concert I made a statement, directly to the audience, about how sad, shocking and isolating this new law seemed to be. A young woman with a rainbow banner cheered. I realised then, with thousands of Russians cheering for a man they knew to be gay, that I had made the right decision. I believe the Russian people are decent and will be persuaded \u2013 but they need to hear us, and see we are human. They can't do that from a distance of 2,000 miles.A number of celebrities have recently declined to go to Russia, some for fear that it is unsafe. But I say to my friends \u2013 we all owe our freedoms to people who took risks with their safety for us, and faced far greater dangers than those confronting a western artist in Russia. Freedom is worth taking a risk for. Saving people from HIV is worth taking a risk for, and there is nothing that fuels the Aids epidemic more effectively than stigma and isolation. We've learnt that over 20 years of funding HIV programmes around the world, including Russia.As the Winter Olympics approaches, I know lots of athletes and artists are facing the same choice that I faced. I realise not everyone will share my view. But personally I hope and pray that prominent people will go to Russia and challenge the wrong thinking of this law. It breeds isolation, mistrust and hate, and cannot be how Russia wants to be known by the world.Thank you to everyone who came to my concerts. And thank you to the people who gave their time to talk to me about HIV and gay rights while I was in Russia. We will continue to support your important, life-saving work.\u2022 This article first appeared on ejaf.com", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Aids and HIV", "Society", "Elton John", "Pop and rock", "Music"], "title": "Elton John: why I performed in Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-10T14:37:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoOrenburg, a southern Russian city close to the Kazakhstan border, is home to Long Arm, AKA Georgii Kotunov. Starting out with DIY musical equipment built from Soviet phonographs, he's gone on to developed a baroque, semi-improvised technique informed by his study of jazz.The above clip shows Long Arm in the Ukrainian river port of Dnipropetrovsk , together with friend and percussionist Ruslan Gadzhimuradov, who\u2019s from the Arctic settlement of Norilsk. Read more about both men here.\u2022 The Invisible Hands: New music from Egypt\u2022 Ringo Sheena \u2013 Netsuai Hakkaku-chu: New music from Japan", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Electronic music"], "title": "Long Arm: New  Music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:42:10Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoApproximately fifty miles south of Moscow is the town of Kolomna, founded in the twelfth century. An air of premodern calm continues to hang over its streets, which are home to\u00a0Sergey Baranov and Denis Basov, also known\u00a0as\u00a0Midimode.Discussing their latest album, Spaceability, they say:\u00a0\u201cOn one hand, we interweave multiple and complex percussive patterns. On the other, you'll hear sad and sentimental melodic lines.\u201d Intricacy and bittersweet retrospection also color a debut video, Ferrumones, in which we take a trip along local streets with a bouncing ball.\u2022 More from Far From Moscow\u2022 Long Arm: New Music from Russia\u2022 Uhuru \u2013 Y-tjukutja: New music from South Africa", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Midimode: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-11T17:57:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was a lot of speculation about whether I would go to Russia this year. Many people outside the country thought I should boycott Russia because of its new homophobic legislation. Others said I must go to challenge the government.I decided in the end to be guided by what Russian people wanted me to do. The message, from even the most marginalised Russian groups we work with at the Elton John AIDS Foundation, was \"please come\". If you don't come, Aids workers and LGBT activists told us, we will feel isolated. We will miss having your voice in our debate. It might be interpreted that you don't care. Or we may be blamed for keeping you away.In Moscow I spent hours with gay activists, federal doctors, human rights lawyers and people living with HIV. They told me that since the new legislation has been adopted it's getting harder and harder to deliver basic HIV information or healthcare to gay men for fear of seeming to \"promote\" homosexuality, which is against the law. Gay people lie even to their children about their sexuality, in case it jeopardises their families.At my concert I made a statement, directly to the audience, about how sad, shocking and isolating this new law seemed to be. A young woman with a rainbow banner cheered. I realised then, with thousands of Russians cheering for a man they knew to be gay, that I had made the right decision. I believe the Russian people are decent and will be persuaded \u2013 but they need to hear us, and see we are human. They can't do that from a distance of 2,000 miles.A number of celebrities have recently declined to go to Russia, some for fear that it is unsafe. But I say to my friends \u2013 we all owe our freedoms to people who took risks with their safety for us, and faced far greater dangers than those confronting a western artist in Russia. Freedom is worth taking a risk for. Saving people from HIV is worth taking a risk for, and there is nothing that fuels the Aids epidemic more effectively than stigma and isolation. We've learnt that over 20 years of funding HIV programmes around the world, including Russia.As the Winter Olympics approaches, I know lots of athletes and artists are facing the same choice that I faced. I realise not everyone will share my view. But personally I hope and pray that prominent people will go to Russia and challenge the wrong thinking of this law. It breeds isolation, mistrust and hate, and cannot be how Russia wants to be known by the world.Thank you to everyone who came to my concerts. And thank you to the people who gave their time to talk to me about HIV and gay rights while I was in Russia. We will continue to support your important, life-saving work.\u2022 This article first appeared on ejaf.com", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Aids and HIV", "Society", "Elton John", "Pop and rock", "Music"], "title": "Elton John: why I performed in Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-10T14:37:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoOrenburg, a southern Russian city close to the Kazakhstan border, is home to Long Arm, AKA Georgii Kotunov. Starting out with DIY musical equipment built from Soviet phonographs, he's gone on to developed a baroque, semi-improvised technique informed by his study of jazz.The above clip shows Long Arm in the Ukrainian river port of Dnipropetrovsk , together with friend and percussionist Ruslan Gadzhimuradov, who\u2019s from the Arctic settlement of Norilsk. Read more about both men here.\u2022 The Invisible Hands: New music from Egypt\u2022 Ringo Sheena \u2013 Netsuai Hakkaku-chu: New music from Japan", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Electronic music"], "title": "Long Arm: New  Music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-11-22T17:18:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The European Union and Russia traded charges of blackmail on Friday over the future of Ukraine.The Kremlin threatened the country with trade losses worth billions and costing hundreds of thousands of jobs if it signed up to a strategic pact with the European Union, senior Lithuanian officials said.President Vladimir Putin of Russia said the EU was putting pressure on Kiev and organising mass protests against President Viktor Yanukovych.A week before a critical EU summit in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, that was to be capped by the Brussels-Kiev pact, Yanukovych abruptly pulled out of the deal on Thursday, leaving EU policy in shreds and Putin relishing victory in the contest for Ukraine's future.The volte face was a result of Russian blackmail, the Lithuanian president's office said as senior officials in Brussels said Yanukovych was sacrificing the hopes and wishes of most of his countrymen on the altar of Russian money and contracts.Yulia Tymoshenko, the imprisoned former prime minister and arch-rival of Yanukovych, whose release and transfer to Germany has been the central condition for the EU pact, pleaded with the president to reverse his decision.In a letter to Yanukovych from prison, she renounced the release condition and pledged she would stay in jail in Ukraine if Yanukovych relented. Fear of facing Tymoshenko in a 2015 presidential battle is believed to be one of the main reasons for the president's rebuff of the EU.\"I give you my word that, if you make a decision to sign the [EU] agreement, on the same day I will appeal to European leaders asking them to sign the agreement without fulfilling all criteria including the part regarding my release. I don't know if they will listen to my appeal but I will do everything possible for the signing of the agreement even as I continue to sit in prison,\" said Tymoshenko. \"This is the only chance for you to survive as a politician,\" she told Yanukovych. \"Because now, when you are killing the agreement you are making the biggest mistake of your life.\"The thunderbolt from Yanukovych brought pro-European protesters on to the streets of central Kiev before what promises to be a weekend of campaigning climaxing in a large rally on Sunday. Around 1,500 took to the streets waving EU flags on Thursday evening. Organisers expect tens of thousands to join protests on Sunday. Jovita Neliup\u0161iene, foreign policy aide to President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania, said Yanukovych had called her before announcing he was ditching the EU pact, arguing that the pressure from Moscow was irresistible.Yanukovych and Putin had a secret meeting last week. The Ukrainian and Russian prime ministers then met in Saint Petersburg on Wednesday.\"Ukraine could not withstand the economic pressure and blackmail. It was threatened with restricted imports of its goods to Russia, particularly from companies in eastern Ukraine, which accommodates the greater share of its industry and employs hundreds of thousands of people. Calculations suggest this would lead to billions in losses. These causes behind the decision were specified by President Yanukovych in the telephone conversation with the president earlier this week,\" Neliup\u0161iene told a Baltic news agency.Eastern Ukraine, traditionally pro-Russian, is also Yanukovych's power base.With Moscow and European capitals locked in rancour and recrimination over Ukraine, Putin let fly at the EU: \"We have heard threats from our European partners towards Ukraine, up to and including promoting the holding of mass protests. This is pressure and this is blackmail.\"With the Ukrainian economy in critical condition, the rebuff to Europe could cost it dearly in terms of EU financial support and the prospects of loans from the IMF.The Vilnius summit was seen as a critical juncture, deciding whether Ukraine would opt for further integration with the EU or see its future in closer ties with Russia. Kiev has been pursuing the trade deal and political association agreement with the EU for the past five years, only to drop it at the last minute. Armenia did the same in September, yielding to Russian pressure and instead joined a Russia-centred Eurasian customs union.\"They are not going Wwest. I don't think they are going Eeast. I feel they are going down,\" said Carl Bildt, the Swedish foreign minister, who has campaigned strongly for Ukraine's European option. \"That's roughly where we are because of the economic problems.\"Official reaction in Brussels was one of disappointment, pleading with Yanukoviych to reconsider, and emphasising that no doors were being closed. Privately, however, senior officials were stunned and conceded that the EU's policy towards the post-Soviet states to the east had been set back years. The two EU envoys on the issue \u2013 Ireland's Pat Cox, a former European parliament president, and Aleksander Kwa\u015bniewski, a former Polish president \u2013 voiced \"deep disappointment at the unilateral decision of the Ukrainian government\u00a0\u2026 we appeal to the president in this difficult situation.\"The people of Ukraine should be reassured by the leaders of the EU that the door will not be shut on the European hopes and aspirations of Ukraine.\"The US state department accused Yanukovych of passing up a \"historic opportunity\". It hinted at economic and financial consequences for Ukraine, as did Catherine Ashton, the EU's top foreign policy official.\"This is a disappointment not just for the EU, but, we believe, for the people of Ukraine,\" she said. \"The signing of the most ambitious agreement the EU has ever offered to a partner country would have sent a clear signal to investors worldwide as well as to international financial institutions that Ukraine is serious about its modernisation pledge and becoming a predictable and reliable interlocutor for international markets. It would have provided a unique opportunity to reverse the recent discouraging trend of decreasing foreign direct investment in Ukraine and would have given momentum to negotiations on a new standby arrangement with the IMF.\"Michael Leigh, a former senior EU official and co-architect of the policy, said: \"People in Ukraine want their country to become more democratic and more prosperous. This opportunity\u00a0\u2026 may not come again.\"Michal Baranowski, the Warsaw director of the German Marshall Fund thinktank, said: \"Geopolitical competition in the region is back. The EU should be ready for a long game.\"", "tags": ["Ukraine", "European Union", "Russia", "Lithuania", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia 'blackmailed Ukraine to ditch EU pact'"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:42:10Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoApproximately fifty miles south of Moscow is the town of Kolomna, founded in the twelfth century. An air of premodern calm continues to hang over its streets, which are home to\u00a0Sergey Baranov and Denis Basov, also known\u00a0as\u00a0Midimode.Discussing their latest album, Spaceability, they say:\u00a0\u201cOn one hand, we interweave multiple and complex percussive patterns. On the other, you'll hear sad and sentimental melodic lines.\u201d Intricacy and bittersweet retrospection also color a debut video, Ferrumones, in which we take a trip along local streets with a bouncing ball.\u2022 More from Far From Moscow\u2022 Long Arm: New Music from Russia\u2022 Uhuru \u2013 Y-tjukutja: New music from South Africa", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Midimode: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-11T17:57:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was a lot of speculation about whether I would go to Russia this year. Many people outside the country thought I should boycott Russia because of its new homophobic legislation. Others said I must go to challenge the government.I decided in the end to be guided by what Russian people wanted me to do. The message, from even the most marginalised Russian groups we work with at the Elton John AIDS Foundation, was \"please come\". If you don't come, Aids workers and LGBT activists told us, we will feel isolated. We will miss having your voice in our debate. It might be interpreted that you don't care. Or we may be blamed for keeping you away.In Moscow I spent hours with gay activists, federal doctors, human rights lawyers and people living with HIV. They told me that since the new legislation has been adopted it's getting harder and harder to deliver basic HIV information or healthcare to gay men for fear of seeming to \"promote\" homosexuality, which is against the law. Gay people lie even to their children about their sexuality, in case it jeopardises their families.At my concert I made a statement, directly to the audience, about how sad, shocking and isolating this new law seemed to be. A young woman with a rainbow banner cheered. I realised then, with thousands of Russians cheering for a man they knew to be gay, that I had made the right decision. I believe the Russian people are decent and will be persuaded \u2013 but they need to hear us, and see we are human. They can't do that from a distance of 2,000 miles.A number of celebrities have recently declined to go to Russia, some for fear that it is unsafe. But I say to my friends \u2013 we all owe our freedoms to people who took risks with their safety for us, and faced far greater dangers than those confronting a western artist in Russia. Freedom is worth taking a risk for. Saving people from HIV is worth taking a risk for, and there is nothing that fuels the Aids epidemic more effectively than stigma and isolation. We've learnt that over 20 years of funding HIV programmes around the world, including Russia.As the Winter Olympics approaches, I know lots of athletes and artists are facing the same choice that I faced. I realise not everyone will share my view. But personally I hope and pray that prominent people will go to Russia and challenge the wrong thinking of this law. It breeds isolation, mistrust and hate, and cannot be how Russia wants to be known by the world.Thank you to everyone who came to my concerts. And thank you to the people who gave their time to talk to me about HIV and gay rights while I was in Russia. We will continue to support your important, life-saving work.\u2022 This article first appeared on ejaf.com", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Aids and HIV", "Society", "Elton John", "Pop and rock", "Music"], "title": "Elton John: why I performed in Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-10T14:37:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoOrenburg, a southern Russian city close to the Kazakhstan border, is home to Long Arm, AKA Georgii Kotunov. Starting out with DIY musical equipment built from Soviet phonographs, he's gone on to developed a baroque, semi-improvised technique informed by his study of jazz.The above clip shows Long Arm in the Ukrainian river port of Dnipropetrovsk , together with friend and percussionist Ruslan Gadzhimuradov, who\u2019s from the Arctic settlement of Norilsk. Read more about both men here.\u2022 The Invisible Hands: New music from Egypt\u2022 Ringo Sheena \u2013 Netsuai Hakkaku-chu: New music from Japan", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Electronic music"], "title": "Long Arm: New  Music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-11-22T17:18:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The European Union and Russia traded charges of blackmail on Friday over the future of Ukraine.The Kremlin threatened the country with trade losses worth billions and costing hundreds of thousands of jobs if it signed up to a strategic pact with the European Union, senior Lithuanian officials said.President Vladimir Putin of Russia said the EU was putting pressure on Kiev and organising mass protests against President Viktor Yanukovych.A week before a critical EU summit in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, that was to be capped by the Brussels-Kiev pact, Yanukovych abruptly pulled out of the deal on Thursday, leaving EU policy in shreds and Putin relishing victory in the contest for Ukraine's future.The volte face was a result of Russian blackmail, the Lithuanian president's office said as senior officials in Brussels said Yanukovych was sacrificing the hopes and wishes of most of his countrymen on the altar of Russian money and contracts.Yulia Tymoshenko, the imprisoned former prime minister and arch-rival of Yanukovych, whose release and transfer to Germany has been the central condition for the EU pact, pleaded with the president to reverse his decision.In a letter to Yanukovych from prison, she renounced the release condition and pledged she would stay in jail in Ukraine if Yanukovych relented. Fear of facing Tymoshenko in a 2015 presidential battle is believed to be one of the main reasons for the president's rebuff of the EU.\"I give you my word that, if you make a decision to sign the [EU] agreement, on the same day I will appeal to European leaders asking them to sign the agreement without fulfilling all criteria including the part regarding my release. I don't know if they will listen to my appeal but I will do everything possible for the signing of the agreement even as I continue to sit in prison,\" said Tymoshenko. \"This is the only chance for you to survive as a politician,\" she told Yanukovych. \"Because now, when you are killing the agreement you are making the biggest mistake of your life.\"The thunderbolt from Yanukovych brought pro-European protesters on to the streets of central Kiev before what promises to be a weekend of campaigning climaxing in a large rally on Sunday. Around 1,500 took to the streets waving EU flags on Thursday evening. Organisers expect tens of thousands to join protests on Sunday. Jovita Neliup\u0161iene, foreign policy aide to President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania, said Yanukovych had called her before announcing he was ditching the EU pact, arguing that the pressure from Moscow was irresistible.Yanukovych and Putin had a secret meeting last week. The Ukrainian and Russian prime ministers then met in Saint Petersburg on Wednesday.\"Ukraine could not withstand the economic pressure and blackmail. It was threatened with restricted imports of its goods to Russia, particularly from companies in eastern Ukraine, which accommodates the greater share of its industry and employs hundreds of thousands of people. Calculations suggest this would lead to billions in losses. These causes behind the decision were specified by President Yanukovych in the telephone conversation with the president earlier this week,\" Neliup\u0161iene told a Baltic news agency.Eastern Ukraine, traditionally pro-Russian, is also Yanukovych's power base.With Moscow and European capitals locked in rancour and recrimination over Ukraine, Putin let fly at the EU: \"We have heard threats from our European partners towards Ukraine, up to and including promoting the holding of mass protests. This is pressure and this is blackmail.\"With the Ukrainian economy in critical condition, the rebuff to Europe could cost it dearly in terms of EU financial support and the prospects of loans from the IMF.The Vilnius summit was seen as a critical juncture, deciding whether Ukraine would opt for further integration with the EU or see its future in closer ties with Russia. Kiev has been pursuing the trade deal and political association agreement with the EU for the past five years, only to drop it at the last minute. Armenia did the same in September, yielding to Russian pressure and instead joined a Russia-centred Eurasian customs union.\"They are not going Wwest. I don't think they are going Eeast. I feel they are going down,\" said Carl Bildt, the Swedish foreign minister, who has campaigned strongly for Ukraine's European option. \"That's roughly where we are because of the economic problems.\"Official reaction in Brussels was one of disappointment, pleading with Yanukoviych to reconsider, and emphasising that no doors were being closed. Privately, however, senior officials were stunned and conceded that the EU's policy towards the post-Soviet states to the east had been set back years. The two EU envoys on the issue \u2013 Ireland's Pat Cox, a former European parliament president, and Aleksander Kwa\u015bniewski, a former Polish president \u2013 voiced \"deep disappointment at the unilateral decision of the Ukrainian government\u00a0\u2026 we appeal to the president in this difficult situation.\"The people of Ukraine should be reassured by the leaders of the EU that the door will not be shut on the European hopes and aspirations of Ukraine.\"The US state department accused Yanukovych of passing up a \"historic opportunity\". It hinted at economic and financial consequences for Ukraine, as did Catherine Ashton, the EU's top foreign policy official.\"This is a disappointment not just for the EU, but, we believe, for the people of Ukraine,\" she said. \"The signing of the most ambitious agreement the EU has ever offered to a partner country would have sent a clear signal to investors worldwide as well as to international financial institutions that Ukraine is serious about its modernisation pledge and becoming a predictable and reliable interlocutor for international markets. It would have provided a unique opportunity to reverse the recent discouraging trend of decreasing foreign direct investment in Ukraine and would have given momentum to negotiations on a new standby arrangement with the IMF.\"Michael Leigh, a former senior EU official and co-architect of the policy, said: \"People in Ukraine want their country to become more democratic and more prosperous. This opportunity\u00a0\u2026 may not come again.\"Michal Baranowski, the Warsaw director of the German Marshall Fund thinktank, said: \"Geopolitical competition in the region is back. The EU should be ready for a long game.\"", "tags": ["Ukraine", "European Union", "Russia", "Lithuania", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia 'blackmailed Ukraine to ditch EU pact'"},{"date": "2013-11-04T13:17:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Russia hosted its first WOMAD festival several weeks ago, one of the guests was folk ensemble\u00a0Zhili-Byli\u00a0(\"Once Upon a Time\"), featuring nationally admired frontman and ethnographer\u00a0Sergei Starostin.Although a Muscovite, Starostin says his interest in folk music first arose as a result of socialist culture. \"When a [post-WWII] movement began to restore Russian cities, there was a simultaneous and massive destruction of village life.\u201dEven this month, the New York Times published an\u00a0article\u00a0about the ongoing, inexorable demise of villages between Moscow and St. Petersburg. The music of Starostin and his colleagues is not just an archival project; it\u2019s also a bittersweet evocation of what might have been.\u2022 More about new folk traditions on Far From Moscow\u2022 Muthoni The Drummer Queen \u2013 Nai Ni Ya Who: New Music from Kenya\u2022 Love Cult - The End: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Folk music"], "title": "Sergei Starostin: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-19T21:04:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "If there is a more irritating sight on the international stage than Vladimir Putin's vulpine visage when he is feeling pleased with himself, it is hard to think of what it would be. His usually immobile features relax sufficiently to betray an immense self-satisfaction as he swings with aplomb into his usual harsh but fair routine.So it was yesterday at his annual big press conference. Questions, many of them pre-planned or at least crafted with especial care to play to his strengths, were fielded with casual ease. The Russian president's special style is to say unreasonable and sometimes unbelievable things in a reasonable way. For example, he denied there had been any Russian pressure on Ukraine to end its negotiations with the European Union. He put his hand on his heart to swear the bailout and cheap gas which he has promised to the Ukrainian leader, Viktor Yanukovych, also had nothing to do with that decision.It was all about brotherly love, Mr Putin said, seemingly unaware that by using that phrase he pre-empts any fair discussion of Ukraine's choices. Families, after all, must stick together. Yet Ukraine is also a member of the European family, as is Russia itself. None of these complexities interested the Russian leader. Mr Yanukovych, giving his own press conference in Kiev, warned Western nations to keep their noses out of his country's affairs.The Russian government's readiness to throw people into prison when they get in its way, bending the legal system to do so, has a long history, but has been a particular characteristic of Mr Putin's rule since the detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky and the confiscation of his Yukos empire in 2003 \u2013 the foundation act of the Putin era. The beauty of this strategy is that you are able to dispose of opponents and critics under cover of the law, but you can then get credit later for a measured clemency, as with Mr Putin's indication yesterday that a pardon for Mr Khodorkovsky is on the way. Murmuring that Mr Khodorkovsky has served 10 years and that his mother is ill, makes Putin seem humane. But it was not humane to put him there in the first place. In lesser key, Mr Putin sought praise for the release of the Greenpeace and Pussy Riot detainees, but not without a final swipe at Greenpeace as an agent of foreign powers and at Pussy Riot as desecrators of Russian womanhoodFinally, since the chances of a nuclear exchange between Russia and the west are now zero, Mr Putin's announcement that Russia has not yet decided to deploy new Iskander missiles in Kaliningrad is simultaneously ridiculous and obtuse. Yet he manages to make it sound as if he is trying to reassure a nervous Nato when he says: \"Let them calm down.\" It will be time to calm down when Mr Putin stops speaking with a forked tongue.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Pussy Riot", "Music"], "title": "Russia: Mr Putin's forked tongue | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:42:10Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoApproximately fifty miles south of Moscow is the town of Kolomna, founded in the twelfth century. An air of premodern calm continues to hang over its streets, which are home to\u00a0Sergey Baranov and Denis Basov, also known\u00a0as\u00a0Midimode.Discussing their latest album, Spaceability, they say:\u00a0\u201cOn one hand, we interweave multiple and complex percussive patterns. On the other, you'll hear sad and sentimental melodic lines.\u201d Intricacy and bittersweet retrospection also color a debut video, Ferrumones, in which we take a trip along local streets with a bouncing ball.\u2022 More from Far From Moscow\u2022 Long Arm: New Music from Russia\u2022 Uhuru \u2013 Y-tjukutja: New music from South Africa", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music"], "title": "Midimode: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-11T17:57:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "There was a lot of speculation about whether I would go to Russia this year. Many people outside the country thought I should boycott Russia because of its new homophobic legislation. Others said I must go to challenge the government.I decided in the end to be guided by what Russian people wanted me to do. The message, from even the most marginalised Russian groups we work with at the Elton John AIDS Foundation, was \"please come\". If you don't come, Aids workers and LGBT activists told us, we will feel isolated. We will miss having your voice in our debate. It might be interpreted that you don't care. Or we may be blamed for keeping you away.In Moscow I spent hours with gay activists, federal doctors, human rights lawyers and people living with HIV. They told me that since the new legislation has been adopted it's getting harder and harder to deliver basic HIV information or healthcare to gay men for fear of seeming to \"promote\" homosexuality, which is against the law. Gay people lie even to their children about their sexuality, in case it jeopardises their families.At my concert I made a statement, directly to the audience, about how sad, shocking and isolating this new law seemed to be. A young woman with a rainbow banner cheered. I realised then, with thousands of Russians cheering for a man they knew to be gay, that I had made the right decision. I believe the Russian people are decent and will be persuaded \u2013 but they need to hear us, and see we are human. They can't do that from a distance of 2,000 miles.A number of celebrities have recently declined to go to Russia, some for fear that it is unsafe. But I say to my friends \u2013 we all owe our freedoms to people who took risks with their safety for us, and faced far greater dangers than those confronting a western artist in Russia. Freedom is worth taking a risk for. Saving people from HIV is worth taking a risk for, and there is nothing that fuels the Aids epidemic more effectively than stigma and isolation. We've learnt that over 20 years of funding HIV programmes around the world, including Russia.As the Winter Olympics approaches, I know lots of athletes and artists are facing the same choice that I faced. I realise not everyone will share my view. But personally I hope and pray that prominent people will go to Russia and challenge the wrong thinking of this law. It breeds isolation, mistrust and hate, and cannot be how Russia wants to be known by the world.Thank you to everyone who came to my concerts. And thank you to the people who gave their time to talk to me about HIV and gay rights while I was in Russia. We will continue to support your important, life-saving work.\u2022 This article first appeared on ejaf.com", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Aids and HIV", "Society", "Elton John", "Pop and rock", "Music"], "title": "Elton John: why I performed in Russia"},{"date": "2013-12-10T14:37:57Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Listen on VimeoOrenburg, a southern Russian city close to the Kazakhstan border, is home to Long Arm, AKA Georgii Kotunov. Starting out with DIY musical equipment built from Soviet phonographs, he's gone on to developed a baroque, semi-improvised technique informed by his study of jazz.The above clip shows Long Arm in the Ukrainian river port of Dnipropetrovsk , together with friend and percussionist Ruslan Gadzhimuradov, who\u2019s from the Arctic settlement of Norilsk. Read more about both men here.\u2022 The Invisible Hands: New music from Egypt\u2022 Ringo Sheena \u2013 Netsuai Hakkaku-chu: New music from Japan", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Electronic music"], "title": "Long Arm: New  Music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-11-22T17:18:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The European Union and Russia traded charges of blackmail on Friday over the future of Ukraine.The Kremlin threatened the country with trade losses worth billions and costing hundreds of thousands of jobs if it signed up to a strategic pact with the European Union, senior Lithuanian officials said.President Vladimir Putin of Russia said the EU was putting pressure on Kiev and organising mass protests against President Viktor Yanukovych.A week before a critical EU summit in Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, that was to be capped by the Brussels-Kiev pact, Yanukovych abruptly pulled out of the deal on Thursday, leaving EU policy in shreds and Putin relishing victory in the contest for Ukraine's future.The volte face was a result of Russian blackmail, the Lithuanian president's office said as senior officials in Brussels said Yanukovych was sacrificing the hopes and wishes of most of his countrymen on the altar of Russian money and contracts.Yulia Tymoshenko, the imprisoned former prime minister and arch-rival of Yanukovych, whose release and transfer to Germany has been the central condition for the EU pact, pleaded with the president to reverse his decision.In a letter to Yanukovych from prison, she renounced the release condition and pledged she would stay in jail in Ukraine if Yanukovych relented. Fear of facing Tymoshenko in a 2015 presidential battle is believed to be one of the main reasons for the president's rebuff of the EU.\"I give you my word that, if you make a decision to sign the [EU] agreement, on the same day I will appeal to European leaders asking them to sign the agreement without fulfilling all criteria including the part regarding my release. I don't know if they will listen to my appeal but I will do everything possible for the signing of the agreement even as I continue to sit in prison,\" said Tymoshenko. \"This is the only chance for you to survive as a politician,\" she told Yanukovych. \"Because now, when you are killing the agreement you are making the biggest mistake of your life.\"The thunderbolt from Yanukovych brought pro-European protesters on to the streets of central Kiev before what promises to be a weekend of campaigning climaxing in a large rally on Sunday. Around 1,500 took to the streets waving EU flags on Thursday evening. Organisers expect tens of thousands to join protests on Sunday. Jovita Neliup\u0161iene, foreign policy aide to President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania, said Yanukovych had called her before announcing he was ditching the EU pact, arguing that the pressure from Moscow was irresistible.Yanukovych and Putin had a secret meeting last week. The Ukrainian and Russian prime ministers then met in Saint Petersburg on Wednesday.\"Ukraine could not withstand the economic pressure and blackmail. It was threatened with restricted imports of its goods to Russia, particularly from companies in eastern Ukraine, which accommodates the greater share of its industry and employs hundreds of thousands of people. Calculations suggest this would lead to billions in losses. These causes behind the decision were specified by President Yanukovych in the telephone conversation with the president earlier this week,\" Neliup\u0161iene told a Baltic news agency.Eastern Ukraine, traditionally pro-Russian, is also Yanukovych's power base.With Moscow and European capitals locked in rancour and recrimination over Ukraine, Putin let fly at the EU: \"We have heard threats from our European partners towards Ukraine, up to and including promoting the holding of mass protests. This is pressure and this is blackmail.\"With the Ukrainian economy in critical condition, the rebuff to Europe could cost it dearly in terms of EU financial support and the prospects of loans from the IMF.The Vilnius summit was seen as a critical juncture, deciding whether Ukraine would opt for further integration with the EU or see its future in closer ties with Russia. Kiev has been pursuing the trade deal and political association agreement with the EU for the past five years, only to drop it at the last minute. Armenia did the same in September, yielding to Russian pressure and instead joined a Russia-centred Eurasian customs union.\"They are not going Wwest. I don't think they are going Eeast. I feel they are going down,\" said Carl Bildt, the Swedish foreign minister, who has campaigned strongly for Ukraine's European option. \"That's roughly where we are because of the economic problems.\"Official reaction in Brussels was one of disappointment, pleading with Yanukoviych to reconsider, and emphasising that no doors were being closed. Privately, however, senior officials were stunned and conceded that the EU's policy towards the post-Soviet states to the east had been set back years. The two EU envoys on the issue \u2013 Ireland's Pat Cox, a former European parliament president, and Aleksander Kwa\u015bniewski, a former Polish president \u2013 voiced \"deep disappointment at the unilateral decision of the Ukrainian government\u00a0\u2026 we appeal to the president in this difficult situation.\"The people of Ukraine should be reassured by the leaders of the EU that the door will not be shut on the European hopes and aspirations of Ukraine.\"The US state department accused Yanukovych of passing up a \"historic opportunity\". It hinted at economic and financial consequences for Ukraine, as did Catherine Ashton, the EU's top foreign policy official.\"This is a disappointment not just for the EU, but, we believe, for the people of Ukraine,\" she said. \"The signing of the most ambitious agreement the EU has ever offered to a partner country would have sent a clear signal to investors worldwide as well as to international financial institutions that Ukraine is serious about its modernisation pledge and becoming a predictable and reliable interlocutor for international markets. It would have provided a unique opportunity to reverse the recent discouraging trend of decreasing foreign direct investment in Ukraine and would have given momentum to negotiations on a new standby arrangement with the IMF.\"Michael Leigh, a former senior EU official and co-architect of the policy, said: \"People in Ukraine want their country to become more democratic and more prosperous. This opportunity\u00a0\u2026 may not come again.\"Michal Baranowski, the Warsaw director of the German Marshall Fund thinktank, said: \"Geopolitical competition in the region is back. The EU should be ready for a long game.\"", "tags": ["Ukraine", "European Union", "Russia", "Lithuania", "Viktor Yanukovych", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia 'blackmailed Ukraine to ditch EU pact'"},{"date": "2013-11-04T13:17:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "When Russia hosted its first WOMAD festival several weeks ago, one of the guests was folk ensemble\u00a0Zhili-Byli\u00a0(\"Once Upon a Time\"), featuring nationally admired frontman and ethnographer\u00a0Sergei Starostin.Although a Muscovite, Starostin says his interest in folk music first arose as a result of socialist culture. \"When a [post-WWII] movement began to restore Russian cities, there was a simultaneous and massive destruction of village life.\u201dEven this month, the New York Times published an\u00a0article\u00a0about the ongoing, inexorable demise of villages between Moscow and St. Petersburg. The music of Starostin and his colleagues is not just an archival project; it\u2019s also a bittersweet evocation of what might have been.\u2022 More about new folk traditions on Far From Moscow\u2022 Muthoni The Drummer Queen \u2013 Nai Ni Ya Who: New Music from Kenya\u2022 Love Cult - The End: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Folk music"], "title": "Sergei Starostin: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2013-10-17T15:02:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Galun is the stage name of beatboxer Sergei Galunenko, who's originates from Kubinka, forty miles west of Moscow. Galun\u00a0has collaborated with a wide range of Russian groups, including Moremoney,\u00a0Monokle,\u00a0Pakava It', and Elochnye Igrushki. His new album, titled Smithers in English and Oskolki in Russian. is published through the excellent Krasnodar label Fuselab.Galun's DIY enterprise began in the distant 1990s; today his voice is mixed and manipulated by producer Ivan Kalashnikov. The MeatSmellsMeat video features stuttering footage of a monitored \u2013 yet extremely dangerous \u2013 battle between fans of Spartak and CSKA.\u2022 See Far From Moscow for more about Galun and his colleagues \u2022 La // Plage \u2013 Rendez Vous: New music from Belgium\u2022 Sandunes feat. Siddharth Basrur \u2013 Good to You: New music from India", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Rap"], "title": "Galun \u2013 MeatSmellsMeat: New music from Russia"},{"date": "2014-03-21T19:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The international community does not like it, but Ukraine has lost Crimea to Russia. The question now is how to persuade President Vladimir Putin against taking another pound of Ukrainian flesh or, more likely, attempting to render the country ungovernable. To this end, the EU and US have been talking tough and producing lists of high-profile Russians they have identified for asset freezes and travel bans. The EU yesterday announced it was adding 12 people to the list of 21 officials it will punish. On Thursday, the US came out with its own second tranche of individuals to target.Neither the rhetoric nor the sanctions have looked convincing, but the US Treasury's list is at least a fascinating account of where Washington believes the bodies are buried in the Putin administration. Among the four men and one bank listed under the heading \"members of the inner circle\" is the close Putin ally Gennady Timchenko. Mr Timchenko was until recently co-owner of Gunvor, which rose from nothing to become the fourth largest oil trader in the world on the back of contracts awarded by the state. According to the US Treasury, Mr Putin has investments in Gunvor and \"may have access to Gunvor funds\". (The Kremlin denies this). The US list also fingers Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo partner of Mr Putin whose companies won more than $7bn worth of contracts for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Bank Rossiya, meanwhile, sometimes described as \"Putin's bank\", owns major stakes in many of the Russian media companies that have been cheerleading the Crimean conquest.The targeting of these asset freezes is smart, but they do not represent much of a stick. In Kiev, the sanctions have been derided as a \"mosquito bite\", and Mr Putin himself yesterday laughed them off. Any crony worth his salt will have long made plans to keep their money out of western clutches, as Mr Timchenko did by dumping his Gunvor stake on Wednesday.Europe has threatened a possible third, more intrusive round of economic sanctions, but we can read in their sluggish responses the double bind the 28 EU states are in, loth to cut off their stuttering economies from Russian trade and gas and unable to set a clear foreign policy objective. Wider economic sanctions are also a blunt, unpredictable instrument: they take years to work, hurt the innocent as much as the guilty, and can even align the people behind a nationalist leader.More effective perhaps than any of these measures would be the suggestion floated by Andy Burnham: a threat to pull the 2018 World Cup from Russia. Withdrawing the propaganda opportunities of such a large event might \u2013 just might \u2013 make Mr Putin think twice.", "tags": ["Crimea", "Ukraine", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "European Union", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup 2022"], "title": "Russia sanctions: little bark, less bite | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-21T19:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The international community does not like it, but Ukraine has lost Crimea to Russia. The question now is how to persuade President Vladimir Putin against taking another pound of Ukrainian flesh or, more likely, attempting to render the country ungovernable. To this end, the EU and US have been talking tough and producing lists of high-profile Russians they have identified for asset freezes and travel bans. The EU yesterday announced it was adding 12 people to the list of 21 officials it will punish. On Thursday, the US came out with its own second tranche of individuals to target.Neither the rhetoric nor the sanctions have looked convincing, but the US Treasury's list is at least a fascinating account of where Washington believes the bodies are buried in the Putin administration. Among the four men and one bank listed under the heading \"members of the inner circle\" is the close Putin ally Gennady Timchenko. Mr Timchenko was until recently co-owner of Gunvor, which rose from nothing to become the fourth largest oil trader in the world on the back of contracts awarded by the state. According to the US Treasury, Mr Putin has investments in Gunvor and \"may have access to Gunvor funds\". (The Kremlin denies this). The US list also fingers Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo partner of Mr Putin whose companies won more than $7bn worth of contracts for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Bank Rossiya, meanwhile, sometimes described as \"Putin's bank\", owns major stakes in many of the Russian media companies that have been cheerleading the Crimean conquest.The targeting of these asset freezes is smart, but they do not represent much of a stick. In Kiev, the sanctions have been derided as a \"mosquito bite\", and Mr Putin himself yesterday laughed them off. Any crony worth his salt will have long made plans to keep their money out of western clutches, as Mr Timchenko did by dumping his Gunvor stake on Wednesday.Europe has threatened a possible third, more intrusive round of economic sanctions, but we can read in their sluggish responses the double bind the 28 EU states are in, loth to cut off their stuttering economies from Russian trade and gas and unable to set a clear foreign policy objective. Wider economic sanctions are also a blunt, unpredictable instrument: they take years to work, hurt the innocent as much as the guilty, and can even align the people behind a nationalist leader.More effective perhaps than any of these measures would be the suggestion floated by Andy Burnham: a threat to pull the 2018 World Cup from Russia. Withdrawing the propaganda opportunities of such a large event might \u2013 just might \u2013 make Mr Putin think twice.", "tags": ["Crimea", "Ukraine", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "European Union", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup 2022"], "title": "Russia sanctions: little bark, less bite | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-14T00:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ukraine's prime minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk has accused Russia of demonstrating unacceptable \"military aggression\" which has \"no reason and no grounds\".Moscow has deployed 10,000 troops along its border with Ukraine, deepening the crisis in Crimea ahead of a last desperate effort by the US secretary of state, John Kerry, to broker a deal with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in London on Friday.Yatsenyuk told the UN security council on Thursday he is convinced Russians do not want war. He urged Russia's leaders to heed the people's wishes and return to dialogue with Ukraine. \"If we start real talks with Russia, I believe we can be real partners,\" Yatsenyuk said.He said Ukraine gave up the world's third-largest nuclear arsenal in 1994 in exchange for guarantees of its independence and territorial integrity. After Russia's recent actions, Yatsenyuk said, \"it would be difficult to convince anyone on the globe not to have nuclear weapons\".Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin said: \"Russia does not want war and neither do the Russians, and I'm convinced the Ukrainians don't want that either.\"Churkin criticised the \"illegal\" and \"forceful overthrow\" of Viktor Yanukovych and asked why a European-mediated plan signed by Yanukovych and Ukraine's protest leaders to form a new government and hold an early election was not seized upon and implemented. Russia refused to sign the agreement but now supports it.\"Instead of a government of national unity as provided for in the 21 February agreement,\" Churkin said, \"in Kiev what you had was a government of the victors.\"Russian troops now control the Crimean peninsula, where voters will decide on Sunday whether to become part of Russia.Western diplomats have expressed little optimism ahead of the London talks. Nothing resembling a peace plan has been sketched out between the two sides, one said.Kerry warned on Thursday that Russia could face \"a series of serious steps\". Both the US and the EU say that if the referendum \u2013 which they have declared illegal \u2013 goes ahead, Moscow will face the prospect of fresh sanctions being imposed.Russian troop deployments were spotted along the Ukrainian border on Wednesday but Russia initially refused to confirm their presence. The defence minister announced on Thursday that 8,500 troops, along with armoured vehicles, helicopters and artillery, had been ordered to several border regions. In addition, 1,500 paratroopers are to be dropped into the Rostov region near the border.The defence ministry claimed the troops were only involved in a training exercise that would last two weeks. The ministry said: \"The main goal of the ongoing events is to comprehensively assess the units' teamwork and subsequently tackle combat training tasks on an unfamiliar terrain and untested training ranges.\"The Russian deployment coincided with a vote in the Ukrainian parliament to create a 60,000-strong national guard. Ukraine's national security chief, Andriy Parubiy, said the force would \"ensure state security, defend the borders and eliminate terrorist groups\".US state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Kerry would reaffirm US support for Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity without interference or provocation by Russia. The secretary of state had previously declined a Russian invitation to Moscow and his decision to go to London prompted speculation the Kremlin may have offered concessions to ensure he would not leave empty-handed. Other diplomats expressed scepticism.Kerry and Lavrov spoke by phone on Thursday, and Russia said the two discussed \"taking into account existing Russian and US proposals to normalise the atmosphere and provide for civil peace\".Before leaving Washington for London, Kerry warned Russia that the EU was planning to join the US in imposing more sanctions on Moscow if the referendum went ahead. The sanctions would include a travel ban and a freeze on bank accounts.German chancellor Angela Merkel, backing up Kerry in the strongest language she has employed so far, told the Bundestag that the consequences for Russia would be huge if it failed to enter into negotiations. She ruled out military force. bBut warned sternly that the crisis would cause \"massive damage to Russia, economically and politically\".Reuters reported that the German vice-chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, warned that Germany would not hesitate to go beyond a second round of European sanctions planned for Monday if the referendum goes ahead.David Cameron and foreign secretary William Hague will meet Kerry before his meeting with Lavrov. A Foreign Office spokesman said Hague had phoned both Kerry and Lavrov to encourage them \"to hold talks in London with a view to de-escalating the situation in Crimea and setting up dialogue between Russia and Ukraine\".As part of a series of moves aimed at displaying solidarity with Ukraine, Nato was planning on Fridayto meet representatives of the Tatar population in the Crimea who are largely hostile to a Russian takeover.Nato's deputy secretary general, Alexander Vershbow, will meet with the Ukrainian MP and leader of the Crimean Tatars, Mustafa Cemilev Kirimoglu.One person was killed and several were treated for injuries on Thursday evening, when hundreds of pro and anti Moscow demonstrators clashed in the eastern city of Donetsk.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 March 2014. The earlier version referred to Reichstag where Bundestag was meant.", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Crimea"], "title": "Russia deploys 10,000 troops near Ukraine border"},{"date": "2014-03-21T19:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The international community does not like it, but Ukraine has lost Crimea to Russia. The question now is how to persuade President Vladimir Putin against taking another pound of Ukrainian flesh or, more likely, attempting to render the country ungovernable. To this end, the EU and US have been talking tough and producing lists of high-profile Russians they have identified for asset freezes and travel bans. The EU yesterday announced it was adding 12 people to the list of 21 officials it will punish. On Thursday, the US came out with its own second tranche of individuals to target.Neither the rhetoric nor the sanctions have looked convincing, but the US Treasury's list is at least a fascinating account of where Washington believes the bodies are buried in the Putin administration. Among the four men and one bank listed under the heading \"members of the inner circle\" is the close Putin ally Gennady Timchenko. Mr Timchenko was until recently co-owner of Gunvor, which rose from nothing to become the fourth largest oil trader in the world on the back of contracts awarded by the state. According to the US Treasury, Mr Putin has investments in Gunvor and \"may have access to Gunvor funds\". (The Kremlin denies this). The US list also fingers Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo partner of Mr Putin whose companies won more than $7bn worth of contracts for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Bank Rossiya, meanwhile, sometimes described as \"Putin's bank\", owns major stakes in many of the Russian media companies that have been cheerleading the Crimean conquest.The targeting of these asset freezes is smart, but they do not represent much of a stick. In Kiev, the sanctions have been derided as a \"mosquito bite\", and Mr Putin himself yesterday laughed them off. Any crony worth his salt will have long made plans to keep their money out of western clutches, as Mr Timchenko did by dumping his Gunvor stake on Wednesday.Europe has threatened a possible third, more intrusive round of economic sanctions, but we can read in their sluggish responses the double bind the 28 EU states are in, loth to cut off their stuttering economies from Russian trade and gas and unable to set a clear foreign policy objective. Wider economic sanctions are also a blunt, unpredictable instrument: they take years to work, hurt the innocent as much as the guilty, and can even align the people behind a nationalist leader.More effective perhaps than any of these measures would be the suggestion floated by Andy Burnham: a threat to pull the 2018 World Cup from Russia. Withdrawing the propaganda opportunities of such a large event might \u2013 just might \u2013 make Mr Putin think twice.", "tags": ["Crimea", "Ukraine", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "European Union", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup 2022"], "title": "Russia sanctions: little bark, less bite | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-14T00:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ukraine's prime minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk has accused Russia of demonstrating unacceptable \"military aggression\" which has \"no reason and no grounds\".Moscow has deployed 10,000 troops along its border with Ukraine, deepening the crisis in Crimea ahead of a last desperate effort by the US secretary of state, John Kerry, to broker a deal with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in London on Friday.Yatsenyuk told the UN security council on Thursday he is convinced Russians do not want war. He urged Russia's leaders to heed the people's wishes and return to dialogue with Ukraine. \"If we start real talks with Russia, I believe we can be real partners,\" Yatsenyuk said.He said Ukraine gave up the world's third-largest nuclear arsenal in 1994 in exchange for guarantees of its independence and territorial integrity. After Russia's recent actions, Yatsenyuk said, \"it would be difficult to convince anyone on the globe not to have nuclear weapons\".Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin said: \"Russia does not want war and neither do the Russians, and I'm convinced the Ukrainians don't want that either.\"Churkin criticised the \"illegal\" and \"forceful overthrow\" of Viktor Yanukovych and asked why a European-mediated plan signed by Yanukovych and Ukraine's protest leaders to form a new government and hold an early election was not seized upon and implemented. Russia refused to sign the agreement but now supports it.\"Instead of a government of national unity as provided for in the 21 February agreement,\" Churkin said, \"in Kiev what you had was a government of the victors.\"Russian troops now control the Crimean peninsula, where voters will decide on Sunday whether to become part of Russia.Western diplomats have expressed little optimism ahead of the London talks. Nothing resembling a peace plan has been sketched out between the two sides, one said.Kerry warned on Thursday that Russia could face \"a series of serious steps\". Both the US and the EU say that if the referendum \u2013 which they have declared illegal \u2013 goes ahead, Moscow will face the prospect of fresh sanctions being imposed.Russian troop deployments were spotted along the Ukrainian border on Wednesday but Russia initially refused to confirm their presence. The defence minister announced on Thursday that 8,500 troops, along with armoured vehicles, helicopters and artillery, had been ordered to several border regions. In addition, 1,500 paratroopers are to be dropped into the Rostov region near the border.The defence ministry claimed the troops were only involved in a training exercise that would last two weeks. The ministry said: \"The main goal of the ongoing events is to comprehensively assess the units' teamwork and subsequently tackle combat training tasks on an unfamiliar terrain and untested training ranges.\"The Russian deployment coincided with a vote in the Ukrainian parliament to create a 60,000-strong national guard. Ukraine's national security chief, Andriy Parubiy, said the force would \"ensure state security, defend the borders and eliminate terrorist groups\".US state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Kerry would reaffirm US support for Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity without interference or provocation by Russia. The secretary of state had previously declined a Russian invitation to Moscow and his decision to go to London prompted speculation the Kremlin may have offered concessions to ensure he would not leave empty-handed. Other diplomats expressed scepticism.Kerry and Lavrov spoke by phone on Thursday, and Russia said the two discussed \"taking into account existing Russian and US proposals to normalise the atmosphere and provide for civil peace\".Before leaving Washington for London, Kerry warned Russia that the EU was planning to join the US in imposing more sanctions on Moscow if the referendum went ahead. The sanctions would include a travel ban and a freeze on bank accounts.German chancellor Angela Merkel, backing up Kerry in the strongest language she has employed so far, told the Bundestag that the consequences for Russia would be huge if it failed to enter into negotiations. She ruled out military force. bBut warned sternly that the crisis would cause \"massive damage to Russia, economically and politically\".Reuters reported that the German vice-chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, warned that Germany would not hesitate to go beyond a second round of European sanctions planned for Monday if the referendum goes ahead.David Cameron and foreign secretary William Hague will meet Kerry before his meeting with Lavrov. A Foreign Office spokesman said Hague had phoned both Kerry and Lavrov to encourage them \"to hold talks in London with a view to de-escalating the situation in Crimea and setting up dialogue between Russia and Ukraine\".As part of a series of moves aimed at displaying solidarity with Ukraine, Nato was planning on Fridayto meet representatives of the Tatar population in the Crimea who are largely hostile to a Russian takeover.Nato's deputy secretary general, Alexander Vershbow, will meet with the Ukrainian MP and leader of the Crimean Tatars, Mustafa Cemilev Kirimoglu.One person was killed and several were treated for injuries on Thursday evening, when hundreds of pro and anti Moscow demonstrators clashed in the eastern city of Donetsk.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 March 2014. The earlier version referred to Reichstag where Bundestag was meant.", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Crimea"], "title": "Russia deploys 10,000 troops near Ukraine border"},{"date": "2014-03-17T11:49:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Lawyers for the Arctic 30, a group of Greenpeace activists and freelance journalists who were detained in Russia last year, have applied to the European court of human rights for damages from Moscow.They are also seeking a declaration Russian authorities broke international and Russian law when they seized a Greenpeace ship and arrested the group protesting against oil drilling in the Arctic.Lawyer Sergey Golubok said: \"We think the Arctic 30 were apprehended and detained in flagrant violation of applicable international and Russian laws.\"\"The reaction of the Russian authorities was completely disproportionate to the peaceful protest that took place. These activists tried to shine a light on the risks of Arctic oil drilling, and yet they were met with a response that bore no relation to their actions,\" he added.Six Britons \u2013 Philip Ball, Alexandra Harris, Frank Hewetson, Anthony Perrett, Iain Rogers and freelance videographer Keiron Bryan \u2013 were among the group, who were finally allowed to leave the country at the end of December. Harris said at the time she thought the Russian government wanted to avoid criticism in the runup to the Winter Olympics in Sochi.According to the complaint, Russia breached the group's right to freedom of expression by taking \"grossly excessive\" measures against a peaceful protest, and by boarding the Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise before detaining the crew first at sea and then in Russian jails for over two months. They were later granted amnesty.Lawyers for Greenpeace argue that all 30 men and women were unlawfully deprived of their liberty for more than two months \u2013 from 18 \u2013 19 September until they were released on bail between 20 \u2013 28 November.They are seeking compensation for the damages for being unlawfully detained and costs and expenses associated with defending their cases in Russia and bringing their case to the European court.The Arctic 30 were originally held for protesting at on offshore oil rig owned by Russian gas giant Gazprom. and initially charged with piracy. Their ship \u2013 the Arctic Sunrise was towed to the Russian port of Murmansk where it is still held. Last week, a court in Saint Petersburg denied a formal petition from Greenpeace to gain access to the ship to determine whether it had been properly maintained during its seizure and the subsequent investigation.", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Environment"], "title": "Arctic 30 protesters seek damages from Russia"},{"date": "2014-03-21T19:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The international community does not like it, but Ukraine has lost Crimea to Russia. The question now is how to persuade President Vladimir Putin against taking another pound of Ukrainian flesh or, more likely, attempting to render the country ungovernable. To this end, the EU and US have been talking tough and producing lists of high-profile Russians they have identified for asset freezes and travel bans. The EU yesterday announced it was adding 12 people to the list of 21 officials it will punish. On Thursday, the US came out with its own second tranche of individuals to target.Neither the rhetoric nor the sanctions have looked convincing, but the US Treasury's list is at least a fascinating account of where Washington believes the bodies are buried in the Putin administration. Among the four men and one bank listed under the heading \"members of the inner circle\" is the close Putin ally Gennady Timchenko. Mr Timchenko was until recently co-owner of Gunvor, which rose from nothing to become the fourth largest oil trader in the world on the back of contracts awarded by the state. According to the US Treasury, Mr Putin has investments in Gunvor and \"may have access to Gunvor funds\". (The Kremlin denies this). The US list also fingers Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo partner of Mr Putin whose companies won more than $7bn worth of contracts for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Bank Rossiya, meanwhile, sometimes described as \"Putin's bank\", owns major stakes in many of the Russian media companies that have been cheerleading the Crimean conquest.The targeting of these asset freezes is smart, but they do not represent much of a stick. In Kiev, the sanctions have been derided as a \"mosquito bite\", and Mr Putin himself yesterday laughed them off. Any crony worth his salt will have long made plans to keep their money out of western clutches, as Mr Timchenko did by dumping his Gunvor stake on Wednesday.Europe has threatened a possible third, more intrusive round of economic sanctions, but we can read in their sluggish responses the double bind the 28 EU states are in, loth to cut off their stuttering economies from Russian trade and gas and unable to set a clear foreign policy objective. Wider economic sanctions are also a blunt, unpredictable instrument: they take years to work, hurt the innocent as much as the guilty, and can even align the people behind a nationalist leader.More effective perhaps than any of these measures would be the suggestion floated by Andy Burnham: a threat to pull the 2018 World Cup from Russia. Withdrawing the propaganda opportunities of such a large event might \u2013 just might \u2013 make Mr Putin think twice.", "tags": ["Crimea", "Ukraine", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "European Union", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup 2022"], "title": "Russia sanctions: little bark, less bite | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-14T00:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ukraine's prime minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk has accused Russia of demonstrating unacceptable \"military aggression\" which has \"no reason and no grounds\".Moscow has deployed 10,000 troops along its border with Ukraine, deepening the crisis in Crimea ahead of a last desperate effort by the US secretary of state, John Kerry, to broker a deal with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in London on Friday.Yatsenyuk told the UN security council on Thursday he is convinced Russians do not want war. He urged Russia's leaders to heed the people's wishes and return to dialogue with Ukraine. \"If we start real talks with Russia, I believe we can be real partners,\" Yatsenyuk said.He said Ukraine gave up the world's third-largest nuclear arsenal in 1994 in exchange for guarantees of its independence and territorial integrity. After Russia's recent actions, Yatsenyuk said, \"it would be difficult to convince anyone on the globe not to have nuclear weapons\".Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin said: \"Russia does not want war and neither do the Russians, and I'm convinced the Ukrainians don't want that either.\"Churkin criticised the \"illegal\" and \"forceful overthrow\" of Viktor Yanukovych and asked why a European-mediated plan signed by Yanukovych and Ukraine's protest leaders to form a new government and hold an early election was not seized upon and implemented. Russia refused to sign the agreement but now supports it.\"Instead of a government of national unity as provided for in the 21 February agreement,\" Churkin said, \"in Kiev what you had was a government of the victors.\"Russian troops now control the Crimean peninsula, where voters will decide on Sunday whether to become part of Russia.Western diplomats have expressed little optimism ahead of the London talks. Nothing resembling a peace plan has been sketched out between the two sides, one said.Kerry warned on Thursday that Russia could face \"a series of serious steps\". Both the US and the EU say that if the referendum \u2013 which they have declared illegal \u2013 goes ahead, Moscow will face the prospect of fresh sanctions being imposed.Russian troop deployments were spotted along the Ukrainian border on Wednesday but Russia initially refused to confirm their presence. The defence minister announced on Thursday that 8,500 troops, along with armoured vehicles, helicopters and artillery, had been ordered to several border regions. In addition, 1,500 paratroopers are to be dropped into the Rostov region near the border.The defence ministry claimed the troops were only involved in a training exercise that would last two weeks. The ministry said: \"The main goal of the ongoing events is to comprehensively assess the units' teamwork and subsequently tackle combat training tasks on an unfamiliar terrain and untested training ranges.\"The Russian deployment coincided with a vote in the Ukrainian parliament to create a 60,000-strong national guard. Ukraine's national security chief, Andriy Parubiy, said the force would \"ensure state security, defend the borders and eliminate terrorist groups\".US state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Kerry would reaffirm US support for Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity without interference or provocation by Russia. The secretary of state had previously declined a Russian invitation to Moscow and his decision to go to London prompted speculation the Kremlin may have offered concessions to ensure he would not leave empty-handed. Other diplomats expressed scepticism.Kerry and Lavrov spoke by phone on Thursday, and Russia said the two discussed \"taking into account existing Russian and US proposals to normalise the atmosphere and provide for civil peace\".Before leaving Washington for London, Kerry warned Russia that the EU was planning to join the US in imposing more sanctions on Moscow if the referendum went ahead. The sanctions would include a travel ban and a freeze on bank accounts.German chancellor Angela Merkel, backing up Kerry in the strongest language she has employed so far, told the Bundestag that the consequences for Russia would be huge if it failed to enter into negotiations. She ruled out military force. bBut warned sternly that the crisis would cause \"massive damage to Russia, economically and politically\".Reuters reported that the German vice-chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, warned that Germany would not hesitate to go beyond a second round of European sanctions planned for Monday if the referendum goes ahead.David Cameron and foreign secretary William Hague will meet Kerry before his meeting with Lavrov. A Foreign Office spokesman said Hague had phoned both Kerry and Lavrov to encourage them \"to hold talks in London with a view to de-escalating the situation in Crimea and setting up dialogue between Russia and Ukraine\".As part of a series of moves aimed at displaying solidarity with Ukraine, Nato was planning on Fridayto meet representatives of the Tatar population in the Crimea who are largely hostile to a Russian takeover.Nato's deputy secretary general, Alexander Vershbow, will meet with the Ukrainian MP and leader of the Crimean Tatars, Mustafa Cemilev Kirimoglu.One person was killed and several were treated for injuries on Thursday evening, when hundreds of pro and anti Moscow demonstrators clashed in the eastern city of Donetsk.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 March 2014. The earlier version referred to Reichstag where Bundestag was meant.", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Crimea"], "title": "Russia deploys 10,000 troops near Ukraine border"},{"date": "2014-03-17T11:49:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Lawyers for the Arctic 30, a group of Greenpeace activists and freelance journalists who were detained in Russia last year, have applied to the European court of human rights for damages from Moscow.They are also seeking a declaration Russian authorities broke international and Russian law when they seized a Greenpeace ship and arrested the group protesting against oil drilling in the Arctic.Lawyer Sergey Golubok said: \"We think the Arctic 30 were apprehended and detained in flagrant violation of applicable international and Russian laws.\"\"The reaction of the Russian authorities was completely disproportionate to the peaceful protest that took place. These activists tried to shine a light on the risks of Arctic oil drilling, and yet they were met with a response that bore no relation to their actions,\" he added.Six Britons \u2013 Philip Ball, Alexandra Harris, Frank Hewetson, Anthony Perrett, Iain Rogers and freelance videographer Keiron Bryan \u2013 were among the group, who were finally allowed to leave the country at the end of December. Harris said at the time she thought the Russian government wanted to avoid criticism in the runup to the Winter Olympics in Sochi.According to the complaint, Russia breached the group's right to freedom of expression by taking \"grossly excessive\" measures against a peaceful protest, and by boarding the Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise before detaining the crew first at sea and then in Russian jails for over two months. They were later granted amnesty.Lawyers for Greenpeace argue that all 30 men and women were unlawfully deprived of their liberty for more than two months \u2013 from 18 \u2013 19 September until they were released on bail between 20 \u2013 28 November.They are seeking compensation for the damages for being unlawfully detained and costs and expenses associated with defending their cases in Russia and bringing their case to the European court.The Arctic 30 were originally held for protesting at on offshore oil rig owned by Russian gas giant Gazprom. and initially charged with piracy. Their ship \u2013 the Arctic Sunrise was towed to the Russian port of Murmansk where it is still held. Last week, a court in Saint Petersburg denied a formal petition from Greenpeace to gain access to the ship to determine whether it had been properly maintained during its seizure and the subsequent investigation.", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Environment"], "title": "Arctic 30 protesters seek damages from Russia"},{"date": "2014-03-10T17:41:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato will continue to meet Russian government officials but will halt all other cooperation to send a \"very clear message to Russia\", said secretary general of the alliance, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, in Brussels last week.Moves that have been stopped included a proposed joint mission with Russia involving the destruction of Syrian chemical weapons.But what about the sale of conventional weapons by the west to Russia?In the House of Commons on Monday, David Cameron, the UK prime minister confirmed what the department for business had already suggested- namely, that the government would review all outstanding British arms export licences to Russia.More than \u00a380m of licences for arms to Russia were granted last year alone, for a wide range of equipment.They included ammunition, and equipment for military aircraft and helicopters, according to official figures.One licence was for an unlimited number of parts for military aircraft, including helicopters.Britain has sold more than \u00a3400m worth of arms to Russia since 2008, compared to just \u00a324m to Ukraine, official figures show.The licences were granted though the Foreign Office listed Russia as one of the countries about which it had human rights concerns. It warned, in its latest annual report, of \"a marked deterioration [in human rights], characterised by attempts to control civil society, restrict political opposition and marginalise minority groups\".Sir Malcolm Bruce, chairman of the Commons on arms export controls, said on Monday: \"We should only really be doing military trade with our allies and friends.\"He said he recognised the need for the arms industry but that \"in situations like this, we finish up selling weapons to people who, if they do not use them against us, they use them against our friends.\"Bruce said Britain should be very sceptical when it came to \"selling to people we can't trust or where there is a risk of misuse\". Russia certainly fell into that category, he said.He is to raise the issue with members of his Commons arms controls committee. Andrew Smith, spokesman for the Campaign Against Arms Trade, described the case as an example of a UK foreign policy that all too often failed to take regional tensions into account and \"prioritises short term arms sales above the safety of citizens.\"Britain should stop selling arms to the region and, instead, promote stability and human rights there.Agreeing an EU-wide arms embargo - or any other sanctions - on Russia will not be easy given the extent of their trade, Germany's in particular, with that country. \u2022 Sir Peter Tapsell, Father of the House (of Commons) asked David Cameron why it was acceptable to allow the Scots to have a referendum on constitutional arrangements established in 1707 while it was not acceptable for Russian nationalists to have a vote on constitutional arrangements dating from 1954 - the year Nikita Krushchev, then Soviet leader, gave Crimea to Ukraine as a \"gift\".Western governments condemn the proposed referendum in Crimea while insisting that the people of Ukraine should be allowed to express their views. The difference, Cameron said, was that the Scottish referendum was legal. I remain puzzled.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Ukraine", "Russia", "UK news", "World news", "Defence policy", "Crimea"], "title": "UK to review arms sales to Russia"},{"date": "2014-03-21T19:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The international community does not like it, but Ukraine has lost Crimea to Russia. The question now is how to persuade President Vladimir Putin against taking another pound of Ukrainian flesh or, more likely, attempting to render the country ungovernable. To this end, the EU and US have been talking tough and producing lists of high-profile Russians they have identified for asset freezes and travel bans. The EU yesterday announced it was adding 12 people to the list of 21 officials it will punish. On Thursday, the US came out with its own second tranche of individuals to target.Neither the rhetoric nor the sanctions have looked convincing, but the US Treasury's list is at least a fascinating account of where Washington believes the bodies are buried in the Putin administration. Among the four men and one bank listed under the heading \"members of the inner circle\" is the close Putin ally Gennady Timchenko. Mr Timchenko was until recently co-owner of Gunvor, which rose from nothing to become the fourth largest oil trader in the world on the back of contracts awarded by the state. According to the US Treasury, Mr Putin has investments in Gunvor and \"may have access to Gunvor funds\". (The Kremlin denies this). The US list also fingers Arkady Rotenberg, a former judo partner of Mr Putin whose companies won more than $7bn worth of contracts for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Bank Rossiya, meanwhile, sometimes described as \"Putin's bank\", owns major stakes in many of the Russian media companies that have been cheerleading the Crimean conquest.The targeting of these asset freezes is smart, but they do not represent much of a stick. In Kiev, the sanctions have been derided as a \"mosquito bite\", and Mr Putin himself yesterday laughed them off. Any crony worth his salt will have long made plans to keep their money out of western clutches, as Mr Timchenko did by dumping his Gunvor stake on Wednesday.Europe has threatened a possible third, more intrusive round of economic sanctions, but we can read in their sluggish responses the double bind the 28 EU states are in, loth to cut off their stuttering economies from Russian trade and gas and unable to set a clear foreign policy objective. Wider economic sanctions are also a blunt, unpredictable instrument: they take years to work, hurt the innocent as much as the guilty, and can even align the people behind a nationalist leader.More effective perhaps than any of these measures would be the suggestion floated by Andy Burnham: a threat to pull the 2018 World Cup from Russia. Withdrawing the propaganda opportunities of such a large event might \u2013 just might \u2013 make Mr Putin think twice.", "tags": ["Crimea", "Ukraine", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "European Union", "US news", "Vladimir Putin", "World Cup 2018", "World Cup 2022"], "title": "Russia sanctions: little bark, less bite | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-03-14T00:35:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ukraine's prime minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk has accused Russia of demonstrating unacceptable \"military aggression\" which has \"no reason and no grounds\".Moscow has deployed 10,000 troops along its border with Ukraine, deepening the crisis in Crimea ahead of a last desperate effort by the US secretary of state, John Kerry, to broker a deal with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, in London on Friday.Yatsenyuk told the UN security council on Thursday he is convinced Russians do not want war. He urged Russia's leaders to heed the people's wishes and return to dialogue with Ukraine. \"If we start real talks with Russia, I believe we can be real partners,\" Yatsenyuk said.He said Ukraine gave up the world's third-largest nuclear arsenal in 1994 in exchange for guarantees of its independence and territorial integrity. After Russia's recent actions, Yatsenyuk said, \"it would be difficult to convince anyone on the globe not to have nuclear weapons\".Russia's UN ambassador Vitaly Churkin said: \"Russia does not want war and neither do the Russians, and I'm convinced the Ukrainians don't want that either.\"Churkin criticised the \"illegal\" and \"forceful overthrow\" of Viktor Yanukovych and asked why a European-mediated plan signed by Yanukovych and Ukraine's protest leaders to form a new government and hold an early election was not seized upon and implemented. Russia refused to sign the agreement but now supports it.\"Instead of a government of national unity as provided for in the 21 February agreement,\" Churkin said, \"in Kiev what you had was a government of the victors.\"Russian troops now control the Crimean peninsula, where voters will decide on Sunday whether to become part of Russia.Western diplomats have expressed little optimism ahead of the London talks. Nothing resembling a peace plan has been sketched out between the two sides, one said.Kerry warned on Thursday that Russia could face \"a series of serious steps\". Both the US and the EU say that if the referendum \u2013 which they have declared illegal \u2013 goes ahead, Moscow will face the prospect of fresh sanctions being imposed.Russian troop deployments were spotted along the Ukrainian border on Wednesday but Russia initially refused to confirm their presence. The defence minister announced on Thursday that 8,500 troops, along with armoured vehicles, helicopters and artillery, had been ordered to several border regions. In addition, 1,500 paratroopers are to be dropped into the Rostov region near the border.The defence ministry claimed the troops were only involved in a training exercise that would last two weeks. The ministry said: \"The main goal of the ongoing events is to comprehensively assess the units' teamwork and subsequently tackle combat training tasks on an unfamiliar terrain and untested training ranges.\"The Russian deployment coincided with a vote in the Ukrainian parliament to create a 60,000-strong national guard. Ukraine's national security chief, Andriy Parubiy, said the force would \"ensure state security, defend the borders and eliminate terrorist groups\".US state department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Kerry would reaffirm US support for Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity without interference or provocation by Russia. The secretary of state had previously declined a Russian invitation to Moscow and his decision to go to London prompted speculation the Kremlin may have offered concessions to ensure he would not leave empty-handed. Other diplomats expressed scepticism.Kerry and Lavrov spoke by phone on Thursday, and Russia said the two discussed \"taking into account existing Russian and US proposals to normalise the atmosphere and provide for civil peace\".Before leaving Washington for London, Kerry warned Russia that the EU was planning to join the US in imposing more sanctions on Moscow if the referendum went ahead. The sanctions would include a travel ban and a freeze on bank accounts.German chancellor Angela Merkel, backing up Kerry in the strongest language she has employed so far, told the Bundestag that the consequences for Russia would be huge if it failed to enter into negotiations. She ruled out military force. bBut warned sternly that the crisis would cause \"massive damage to Russia, economically and politically\".Reuters reported that the German vice-chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, warned that Germany would not hesitate to go beyond a second round of European sanctions planned for Monday if the referendum goes ahead.David Cameron and foreign secretary William Hague will meet Kerry before his meeting with Lavrov. A Foreign Office spokesman said Hague had phoned both Kerry and Lavrov to encourage them \"to hold talks in London with a view to de-escalating the situation in Crimea and setting up dialogue between Russia and Ukraine\".As part of a series of moves aimed at displaying solidarity with Ukraine, Nato was planning on Fridayto meet representatives of the Tatar population in the Crimea who are largely hostile to a Russian takeover.Nato's deputy secretary general, Alexander Vershbow, will meet with the Ukrainian MP and leader of the Crimean Tatars, Mustafa Cemilev Kirimoglu.One person was killed and several were treated for injuries on Thursday evening, when hundreds of pro and anti Moscow demonstrators clashed in the eastern city of Donetsk.\u2022 This article was amended on 14 March 2014. The earlier version referred to Reichstag where Bundestag was meant.", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Crimea"], "title": "Russia deploys 10,000 troops near Ukraine border"},{"date": "2014-03-17T11:49:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Lawyers for the Arctic 30, a group of Greenpeace activists and freelance journalists who were detained in Russia last year, have applied to the European court of human rights for damages from Moscow.They are also seeking a declaration Russian authorities broke international and Russian law when they seized a Greenpeace ship and arrested the group protesting against oil drilling in the Arctic.Lawyer Sergey Golubok said: \"We think the Arctic 30 were apprehended and detained in flagrant violation of applicable international and Russian laws.\"\"The reaction of the Russian authorities was completely disproportionate to the peaceful protest that took place. These activists tried to shine a light on the risks of Arctic oil drilling, and yet they were met with a response that bore no relation to their actions,\" he added.Six Britons \u2013 Philip Ball, Alexandra Harris, Frank Hewetson, Anthony Perrett, Iain Rogers and freelance videographer Keiron Bryan \u2013 were among the group, who were finally allowed to leave the country at the end of December. Harris said at the time she thought the Russian government wanted to avoid criticism in the runup to the Winter Olympics in Sochi.According to the complaint, Russia breached the group's right to freedom of expression by taking \"grossly excessive\" measures against a peaceful protest, and by boarding the Greenpeace ship Arctic Sunrise before detaining the crew first at sea and then in Russian jails for over two months. They were later granted amnesty.Lawyers for Greenpeace argue that all 30 men and women were unlawfully deprived of their liberty for more than two months \u2013 from 18 \u2013 19 September until they were released on bail between 20 \u2013 28 November.They are seeking compensation for the damages for being unlawfully detained and costs and expenses associated with defending their cases in Russia and bringing their case to the European court.The Arctic 30 were originally held for protesting at on offshore oil rig owned by Russian gas giant Gazprom. and initially charged with piracy. Their ship \u2013 the Arctic Sunrise was towed to the Russian port of Murmansk where it is still held. Last week, a court in Saint Petersburg denied a formal petition from Greenpeace to gain access to the ship to determine whether it had been properly maintained during its seizure and the subsequent investigation.", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Russia", "World news", "Protest", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Environment"], "title": "Arctic 30 protesters seek damages from Russia"},{"date": "2014-03-10T17:41:32Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Nato will continue to meet Russian government officials but will halt all other cooperation to send a \"very clear message to Russia\", said secretary general of the alliance, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, in Brussels last week.Moves that have been stopped included a proposed joint mission with Russia involving the destruction of Syrian chemical weapons.But what about the sale of conventional weapons by the west to Russia?In the House of Commons on Monday, David Cameron, the UK prime minister confirmed what the department for business had already suggested- namely, that the government would review all outstanding British arms export licences to Russia.More than \u00a380m of licences for arms to Russia were granted last year alone, for a wide range of equipment.They included ammunition, and equipment for military aircraft and helicopters, according to official figures.One licence was for an unlimited number of parts for military aircraft, including helicopters.Britain has sold more than \u00a3400m worth of arms to Russia since 2008, compared to just \u00a324m to Ukraine, official figures show.The licences were granted though the Foreign Office listed Russia as one of the countries about which it had human rights concerns. It warned, in its latest annual report, of \"a marked deterioration [in human rights], characterised by attempts to control civil society, restrict political opposition and marginalise minority groups\".Sir Malcolm Bruce, chairman of the Commons on arms export controls, said on Monday: \"We should only really be doing military trade with our allies and friends.\"He said he recognised the need for the arms industry but that \"in situations like this, we finish up selling weapons to people who, if they do not use them against us, they use them against our friends.\"Bruce said Britain should be very sceptical when it came to \"selling to people we can't trust or where there is a risk of misuse\". Russia certainly fell into that category, he said.He is to raise the issue with members of his Commons arms controls committee. Andrew Smith, spokesman for the Campaign Against Arms Trade, described the case as an example of a UK foreign policy that all too often failed to take regional tensions into account and \"prioritises short term arms sales above the safety of citizens.\"Britain should stop selling arms to the region and, instead, promote stability and human rights there.Agreeing an EU-wide arms embargo - or any other sanctions - on Russia will not be easy given the extent of their trade, Germany's in particular, with that country. \u2022 Sir Peter Tapsell, Father of the House (of Commons) asked David Cameron why it was acceptable to allow the Scots to have a referendum on constitutional arrangements established in 1707 while it was not acceptable for Russian nationalists to have a vote on constitutional arrangements dating from 1954 - the year Nikita Krushchev, then Soviet leader, gave Crimea to Ukraine as a \"gift\".Western governments condemn the proposed referendum in Crimea while insisting that the people of Ukraine should be allowed to express their views. The difference, Cameron said, was that the Scottish referendum was legal. I remain puzzled.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Ukraine", "Russia", "UK news", "World news", "Defence policy", "Crimea"], "title": "UK to review arms sales to Russia"},{"date": "2014-02-27T23:08:59Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Sergei Lavrov's statement was categorical. Russia, the country's foreign minister said on Tuesday, would stick by its \"principled position of non-intervention\" in Ukraine's internal affairs. While one can applaud Mr Lavrov's sentiment, it is hard to reconcile his words with events on the ground on Thursday.After a series of overnight raids, masked men wearing flak jackets and armed with rocket-propelled grenades and sniper rifles seized the parliament building in Simferopol, the capital of Ukraine's Crimea region. The men, described by Russia's semiofficial Interfax news agency as \"Crimean self-defence units\", barricaded themselves inside the building and raised the Russian flag. A few hours later the deposed Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, who has been on the run since last Friday, surfaced in Russia. In a statement broadcast on Moscow state media, he called for protection from \"the actions of extremists\" who had toppled his government.Russian armed forces were meanwhile vigorously deploying along the Ukrainian border as part of a snap military exercise ordered by President Vladimir Putin. Russian armoured vehicles were reportedly seen outside the limits of Russia's military base in Sevastopol, prompting Ukraine's acting president, Oleksandr Turchynov, to warn Russia that any movement by Russian forces outside their bases in the southern republic of Crimea would be interpreted as an act of military aggression.Whether the hand of the Kremlin is behind the occupation of the parliament building or not, the country's combined actions represent a clear threat, a demonstration of Russian power and influence in Ukraine and a dangerous ratcheting up of tension in a region that is already in crisis.There are of course good reasons for Mr Putin to fear Kiev's revolution, not least because of Ukraine's strategic importance to Moscow: the country now lies at the outer edge of Russia's sphere of influence and is the conduit for billions of dollars' worth of gas sales to Germany and western Europe. It also hosts the Black Sea fleet at Sevastopol under a long-term lease agreement. The two countries' populations are inextricably linked: ethnic Russians make up some 58% of Crimea's two million citizens, many of whom would welcome a return to the country it belonged to until 1954. The Ukrainian parliament's decision, the day after dismissing Mr Yanukovych, to abolish a law allowing the country's regions to make Russian a second official language was disturbing and unnecessary, and served only to fan the flames of Russian angst.Some of Kiev's revolutionaries also give cause for legitimate concern: the interim government appointed on Thursday included two nationalists from the rightwing Svoboda party, fuel to the rhetoric of Russian prime minister and former president Dmitry Medvedev, who railed against the \"Kalashnikov-toting people in black masks\" who had taken over the country and whom the west is trying to present as a legitimate government.However much they are provoked, then, the new members of the Kiev government must tread carefully. They must reassure Moscow that its interests and those of the Russian-speaking minority will be attended to. They must move with caution in dealing with the gunmen in the Crimean parliament or risk a Russian response.There are clear lessons for Kiev in the Georgian crisis in the summer of 2008. After Georgian troops moved into the breakaway, Moscow-backed region of South Ossetia, Russia retaliated. A nasty five-day war saw hundreds killed and led to the long-term Russian occupation of 20% of Georgia's territory. If a similar event were to take place in the much bigger, more heavily armed nation of Ukraine, the results could be catastrophic.\"Provocateurs are marching,\" Kiev's acting interior minister, Arsen Avakov, said on Thursday. \"It is time for cool heads.\" It is also a time for Russia properly to enact its \"principled position of non-intervention\".", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Ukraine and Russia: fanning the flames | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-06-11T11:32:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Calvert Journal introduced us to 24 photographers changing the way the world sees Russia on the Guardian New East this week. From the pre-Sochi gay scene to life in the freezing north, a new generation of photographers offering a fresh take on Russian life. What do you think of the shots? What's missing and can you help us fill in the gaps? We want you see your photos of daily life in Russia that sum up national identity. If you are celebrating Russia Day we'd love to see photos of that too. A big stage emblazoned with GO RUSSIA! being set up on Red Square ahead of Russia Day tomorrow pic.twitter.com/sH3AMczrdzShare your photos or videos with GuardianWitness by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons. If you're using our new Guardian app you can contribute here. Don\u2019t forget to tell us where you live and we\u2019ll use the best contributions on the New East Network. GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Russia", "Photography"], "title": "Daily life in Russia \u2013 share your photos"},{"date": "2014-06-11T11:32:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Calvert Journal introduced us to 24 photographers changing the way the world sees Russia on the Guardian New East this week. From the pre-Sochi gay scene to life in the freezing north, a new generation of photographers offering a fresh take on Russian life. What do you think of the shots? What's missing and can you help us fill in the gaps? We want you see your photos of daily life in Russia that sum up national identity. If you are celebrating Russia Day we'd love to see photos of that too. A big stage emblazoned with GO RUSSIA! being set up on Red Square ahead of Russia Day tomorrow pic.twitter.com/sH3AMczrdzShare your photos or videos with GuardianWitness by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons. If you're using our new Guardian app you can contribute here. Don\u2019t forget to tell us where you live and we\u2019ll use the best contributions on the New East Network. GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Russia", "Photography"], "title": "Daily life in Russia \u2013 share your photos"},{"date": "2014-06-06T11:05:30Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Greenpeace icebreaker confiscated by Russia after activists tried to board a Gazprom oil rig has been released. But it could take two months before the Arctic Sunrise leaves Murmansk harbour, according to the campaigning group.The ship was boarded by the Russian coast guard and towed 500 miles from the Pechora Sea to the northern Russian port of Murmansk in September 2013. Thirty activists, including six Britons, were arrested and accused of hooliganism and piracy.Although the 30 activists were all released from prison after three months of international protests, the ship remained in port pending a decision by the Russian investigative committee (IC).According to Greenpeace International lawyers, the committee unexpectedly \u201cannulled the arrest\u201d of the ship on Friday and informed the Amsterdam-based group that the ship could leave.However, Greenpeace International said it was unlikely that the Arctic Sunrise would be seaworthy for at least a month and possibly more.\u201cOur main priority now is to get the ship checked by independent surveyors to assess the level of damage since it was seized by Russian agents on 19 September. We will also be asking the Russian authorities to continue guarding the vessel until our crew arrives to take custody of it,\u201d said Daniel Simons, Greenpeace International legal counsel.Essential navigation gear is also known to have been removed from the ship and is being held separately by the Russian authorities. \u201cIt will take at least a month to prepare the ship,\u201d said Maria Favorskaya, a Greenpeace spokeswoman in Moscow.\u201cMillions of people spoke out against the illegal imprisonment of the Arctic 30, and today the final member of the group is free to come home. Our ship was confiscated during an entirely peaceful protest against Arctic drilling in international waters. There was absolutely no justification either for boarding the ship or keeping it for eight months.\u201cThis whole affair was a brazen attempt to intimidate those who believe that drilling for oil in the melting Arctic is reckless and unsafe. After months without proper maintenance our ship will need careful repairs, but like our campaign to protect the Arctic she will emerge better, fitter and stronger from this.\u201d", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Environment", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Protest", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Arctic", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Netherlands"], "title": "Arctic 30: Russia releases Greenpeace ship"},{"date": "2014-06-11T11:32:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Calvert Journal introduced us to 24 photographers changing the way the world sees Russia on the Guardian New East this week. From the pre-Sochi gay scene to life in the freezing north, a new generation of photographers offering a fresh take on Russian life. What do you think of the shots? What's missing and can you help us fill in the gaps? We want you see your photos of daily life in Russia that sum up national identity. If you are celebrating Russia Day we'd love to see photos of that too. A big stage emblazoned with GO RUSSIA! being set up on Red Square ahead of Russia Day tomorrow pic.twitter.com/sH3AMczrdzShare your photos or videos with GuardianWitness by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons. If you're using our new Guardian app you can contribute here. Don\u2019t forget to tell us where you live and we\u2019ll use the best contributions on the New East Network. GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Russia", "Photography"], "title": "Daily life in Russia \u2013 share your photos"},{"date": "2014-06-06T11:05:30Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Greenpeace icebreaker confiscated by Russia after activists tried to board a Gazprom oil rig has been released. But it could take two months before the Arctic Sunrise leaves Murmansk harbour, according to the campaigning group.The ship was boarded by the Russian coast guard and towed 500 miles from the Pechora Sea to the northern Russian port of Murmansk in September 2013. Thirty activists, including six Britons, were arrested and accused of hooliganism and piracy.Although the 30 activists were all released from prison after three months of international protests, the ship remained in port pending a decision by the Russian investigative committee (IC).According to Greenpeace International lawyers, the committee unexpectedly \u201cannulled the arrest\u201d of the ship on Friday and informed the Amsterdam-based group that the ship could leave.However, Greenpeace International said it was unlikely that the Arctic Sunrise would be seaworthy for at least a month and possibly more.\u201cOur main priority now is to get the ship checked by independent surveyors to assess the level of damage since it was seized by Russian agents on 19 September. We will also be asking the Russian authorities to continue guarding the vessel until our crew arrives to take custody of it,\u201d said Daniel Simons, Greenpeace International legal counsel.Essential navigation gear is also known to have been removed from the ship and is being held separately by the Russian authorities. \u201cIt will take at least a month to prepare the ship,\u201d said Maria Favorskaya, a Greenpeace spokeswoman in Moscow.\u201cMillions of people spoke out against the illegal imprisonment of the Arctic 30, and today the final member of the group is free to come home. Our ship was confiscated during an entirely peaceful protest against Arctic drilling in international waters. There was absolutely no justification either for boarding the ship or keeping it for eight months.\u201cThis whole affair was a brazen attempt to intimidate those who believe that drilling for oil in the melting Arctic is reckless and unsafe. After months without proper maintenance our ship will need careful repairs, but like our campaign to protect the Arctic she will emerge better, fitter and stronger from this.\u201d", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Environment", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Protest", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Arctic", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Netherlands"], "title": "Arctic 30: Russia releases Greenpeace ship"},{"date": "2014-05-28T15:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Around 300 coalminers rallied in support of pro-Russia separatists in Donetsk on Wednesdayyesterday as rebel fighters fortified their positions in the city in anticipation of a possible attack by Ukrainian forces.The miners marched through the city centre to show support for the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic, waving Russian flags and banners that read: \"We will revive the power of Donbass.\"\"I want peace and to be able to work and make money. I want the occupying soldiers to leave and return to their Kiev junta,\" one protester, Valery, who works at the state-owned Abakumova mine, told Reuters.Tensions are high across the city after Kiev used warplanes on Tuesday to dislodge rebels who had seized Donetsk airport. At least 50 pro-Russia fighters were killed in the offensive. More shooting was reported around the airport on Wednesday.On Wednesday, the Kiev government claimed the dead from three days of fighting included Russians from the North Caucasus republics of Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan, as well as Serbs and Ukrainians.Dmytro Tymchuk, a government spokesman, said Ukrainian forces had recovered mortars and flamethrowers from the \"terrorists\", as well as a minibus carrying 10 anti-tank grenade launchers. The operation against \"illegal armed formations\" was continuing, he said.Alexander Borodai, the rebels' unelected prime minister, admitted that Chechen and Ossetian fighters had arrived in Donetsk. But he described them as \"volunteers\" who were protecting ethnic Russians.On Tuesday Chechen fighters told the Financial Times that Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov, had ordered them to eastern Ukraine. The fighters said they were from the \"dikaya diviziya\", or savage division. Kadyrov has denied the claim.Much of Donetsk \u2013 a city of one million \u2013 was largely deserted on Wednesday as residents stayed indoors and Ukrainian combat aircraft flew overhead. Witnesses reported hearing firing from inside the main security service building in Schorsa Street, occupied by Donetsk People's Republic fighters. The rebels claim to have shot down a pilotless drone flying over the area.The separatists seized the fire department building, removing crates and erecting barricades. Donetsk's city mayor, Oleksandr Lukyanenko, urged people nearby to stay home. \"We're asking residents of neighbouring houses not to approach the [rebel-occupied] buildings, not to come on the balconies or the street without extreme necessity,\" he said, according to the Kyiv Post.A column of rebel military vehicles was spotted early on Wednesday trundling through the city centre towards the regional administration building, occupied by the separatist leadership since April. The vehicles included an armoured personnel carrier, with fighters perched on the top, a large-calibre gun, trucks, buses and an ambulance. Kiev officials accuse the rebels of using ambulances to transport weapons and military equipment.The miners, meanwhile, said the pro-western government in Kiev was made up of \"fascists\" who had seized power illegally. Petro Poroshenko, a chocolate baron who won Sunday's presidential election by a landslide, has offered the east greater autonomy. But he has vowed to take a tough line against armed separatists who have refused to give up their weapons, comparing them to Somali pirates. Ultra-nationalist Ukrainian leaders did badly in Sunday's poll, winning only 2% of the vote.Russia wants an immediate end to Ukraine's military offensive against the rebels. It has denied arming or training the separatists, who have taken power in several cities and towns across the region, but says their calls for autonomy from Kiev are legitimate and should be addressed.On Wednesday, Denis Pushilin, the self-appointed head of the Donetsk People's Republic, suggested the armed fighters from Russia were joining the battle against Kiev. He said more and more volunteers were crossing Ukraine's long eastern border from Russia to support the rebel cause. \"We will drive fascism away,\" he declared.Coalminer Vladislav said he hoped Russia would recognise the Donetsk People's Republic as an independent state. \"But I can also live on bread and water if that is what it takes to win independence,\" he said.The Union of Mine Workers, to which most of Wednesday's protesters belong, has close links to the Party of the Regions, which ousted president Viktor Yanukovych once led.Other miners' unions distanced themselves from the rally. \"We did not organise this action,\" said Mykola Volynko, head of the Independent Miners' Trade Union of the Donbass, on Ukrainian television. \"[The protesters and the Party of the Regions] continue to do everything to break up the country.\"", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Miners hold pro-Russia rally in Donetsk"},{"date": "2014-06-11T11:32:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Calvert Journal introduced us to 24 photographers changing the way the world sees Russia on the Guardian New East this week. From the pre-Sochi gay scene to life in the freezing north, a new generation of photographers offering a fresh take on Russian life. What do you think of the shots? What's missing and can you help us fill in the gaps? We want you see your photos of daily life in Russia that sum up national identity. If you are celebrating Russia Day we'd love to see photos of that too. A big stage emblazoned with GO RUSSIA! being set up on Red Square ahead of Russia Day tomorrow pic.twitter.com/sH3AMczrdzShare your photos or videos with GuardianWitness by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons. If you're using our new Guardian app you can contribute here. Don\u2019t forget to tell us where you live and we\u2019ll use the best contributions on the New East Network. GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Russia", "Photography"], "title": "Daily life in Russia \u2013 share your photos"},{"date": "2014-06-06T11:05:30Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Greenpeace icebreaker confiscated by Russia after activists tried to board a Gazprom oil rig has been released. But it could take two months before the Arctic Sunrise leaves Murmansk harbour, according to the campaigning group.The ship was boarded by the Russian coast guard and towed 500 miles from the Pechora Sea to the northern Russian port of Murmansk in September 2013. Thirty activists, including six Britons, were arrested and accused of hooliganism and piracy.Although the 30 activists were all released from prison after three months of international protests, the ship remained in port pending a decision by the Russian investigative committee (IC).According to Greenpeace International lawyers, the committee unexpectedly \u201cannulled the arrest\u201d of the ship on Friday and informed the Amsterdam-based group that the ship could leave.However, Greenpeace International said it was unlikely that the Arctic Sunrise would be seaworthy for at least a month and possibly more.\u201cOur main priority now is to get the ship checked by independent surveyors to assess the level of damage since it was seized by Russian agents on 19 September. We will also be asking the Russian authorities to continue guarding the vessel until our crew arrives to take custody of it,\u201d said Daniel Simons, Greenpeace International legal counsel.Essential navigation gear is also known to have been removed from the ship and is being held separately by the Russian authorities. \u201cIt will take at least a month to prepare the ship,\u201d said Maria Favorskaya, a Greenpeace spokeswoman in Moscow.\u201cMillions of people spoke out against the illegal imprisonment of the Arctic 30, and today the final member of the group is free to come home. Our ship was confiscated during an entirely peaceful protest against Arctic drilling in international waters. There was absolutely no justification either for boarding the ship or keeping it for eight months.\u201cThis whole affair was a brazen attempt to intimidate those who believe that drilling for oil in the melting Arctic is reckless and unsafe. After months without proper maintenance our ship will need careful repairs, but like our campaign to protect the Arctic she will emerge better, fitter and stronger from this.\u201d", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Environment", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Protest", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Arctic", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Netherlands"], "title": "Arctic 30: Russia releases Greenpeace ship"},{"date": "2014-05-28T15:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Around 300 coalminers rallied in support of pro-Russia separatists in Donetsk on Wednesdayyesterday as rebel fighters fortified their positions in the city in anticipation of a possible attack by Ukrainian forces.The miners marched through the city centre to show support for the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic, waving Russian flags and banners that read: \"We will revive the power of Donbass.\"\"I want peace and to be able to work and make money. I want the occupying soldiers to leave and return to their Kiev junta,\" one protester, Valery, who works at the state-owned Abakumova mine, told Reuters.Tensions are high across the city after Kiev used warplanes on Tuesday to dislodge rebels who had seized Donetsk airport. At least 50 pro-Russia fighters were killed in the offensive. More shooting was reported around the airport on Wednesday.On Wednesday, the Kiev government claimed the dead from three days of fighting included Russians from the North Caucasus republics of Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan, as well as Serbs and Ukrainians.Dmytro Tymchuk, a government spokesman, said Ukrainian forces had recovered mortars and flamethrowers from the \"terrorists\", as well as a minibus carrying 10 anti-tank grenade launchers. The operation against \"illegal armed formations\" was continuing, he said.Alexander Borodai, the rebels' unelected prime minister, admitted that Chechen and Ossetian fighters had arrived in Donetsk. But he described them as \"volunteers\" who were protecting ethnic Russians.On Tuesday Chechen fighters told the Financial Times that Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov, had ordered them to eastern Ukraine. The fighters said they were from the \"dikaya diviziya\", or savage division. Kadyrov has denied the claim.Much of Donetsk \u2013 a city of one million \u2013 was largely deserted on Wednesday as residents stayed indoors and Ukrainian combat aircraft flew overhead. Witnesses reported hearing firing from inside the main security service building in Schorsa Street, occupied by Donetsk People's Republic fighters. The rebels claim to have shot down a pilotless drone flying over the area.The separatists seized the fire department building, removing crates and erecting barricades. Donetsk's city mayor, Oleksandr Lukyanenko, urged people nearby to stay home. \"We're asking residents of neighbouring houses not to approach the [rebel-occupied] buildings, not to come on the balconies or the street without extreme necessity,\" he said, according to the Kyiv Post.A column of rebel military vehicles was spotted early on Wednesday trundling through the city centre towards the regional administration building, occupied by the separatist leadership since April. The vehicles included an armoured personnel carrier, with fighters perched on the top, a large-calibre gun, trucks, buses and an ambulance. Kiev officials accuse the rebels of using ambulances to transport weapons and military equipment.The miners, meanwhile, said the pro-western government in Kiev was made up of \"fascists\" who had seized power illegally. Petro Poroshenko, a chocolate baron who won Sunday's presidential election by a landslide, has offered the east greater autonomy. But he has vowed to take a tough line against armed separatists who have refused to give up their weapons, comparing them to Somali pirates. Ultra-nationalist Ukrainian leaders did badly in Sunday's poll, winning only 2% of the vote.Russia wants an immediate end to Ukraine's military offensive against the rebels. It has denied arming or training the separatists, who have taken power in several cities and towns across the region, but says their calls for autonomy from Kiev are legitimate and should be addressed.On Wednesday, Denis Pushilin, the self-appointed head of the Donetsk People's Republic, suggested the armed fighters from Russia were joining the battle against Kiev. He said more and more volunteers were crossing Ukraine's long eastern border from Russia to support the rebel cause. \"We will drive fascism away,\" he declared.Coalminer Vladislav said he hoped Russia would recognise the Donetsk People's Republic as an independent state. \"But I can also live on bread and water if that is what it takes to win independence,\" he said.The Union of Mine Workers, to which most of Wednesday's protesters belong, has close links to the Party of the Regions, which ousted president Viktor Yanukovych once led.Other miners' unions distanced themselves from the rally. \"We did not organise this action,\" said Mykola Volynko, head of the Independent Miners' Trade Union of the Donbass, on Ukrainian television. \"[The protesters and the Party of the Regions] continue to do everything to break up the country.\"", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Miners hold pro-Russia rally in Donetsk"},{"date": "2014-04-25T12:29:36Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, appears to have offered a deal to resolve the crisis in eastern Ukraine, suggesting that if the country's government clears out the nationalist protest camp in Kiev, then pro-Moscow separatists will lay down their arms.Western officials greeted the proposal with scepticism, noting that such confidence-building measures were at the heart of an international agreement reached last week, but which failed to end the separatists' occupation of public buildings in eastern Ukraine. They said the protest camp in Independence Square in Kiev, erected in February during the uprising that toppled the Russian-backed president, Viktor Yanukovych, was already being dismantled.The Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe, which is monitoring the situation in Ukraine, reported that its team in the capital \"observed the ongoing clearing of barricades in the Maidan square\".\"The situation in the capital city was calm,\" the report added.One western official raised the possibility that Lavrov might be seeking to use the dismantling of the camp as a face-saving way out of the crisis, but cautioned that there were few other signs of compromise from Moscow.Lavrov's comments came as the Ukrainian government launched further military operations against some of the pro-Russian separatists who have seized government buildings across eastern Ukraine, having killed up to five rebels on Thursday.He said the pro-Russian militias in the east \"will be ready\" to lay down arms and vacate the buildings \"only if Kiev authorities get down to implementing the Geneva accords, clear out that shameful Maidan [Independence Square] and liberate the buildings that have been illegally seized\".Lavrov spoke after Barack Obama told reporters in Seoul he would call European leaders during the course of the day to discuss action since the failure of the Geneva agreement, a possible prelude to new US and EU sanctions against Russia.The crisis is already showing signs of seriously damaging the Russian economy. The Standard & Poor's credit agency cut the country's credit rating on Friday for the first time in more than five years, following concerns about capital flight and risks to investments.In unusually blunt language, the US secretary of state, John Kerry, said on Thursday that unless Moscow took immediate steps to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine, Washington would have no choice but to impose additional sanctions. He said it would be a grave and \"expensive mistake\".Kerry's comments came amid an increasingly bitter war of words over who is to blame for the crisis, which is becoming steadily more violent.The Ukrainian prime minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, made the strongest comments yet on Friday when he accused Russia of trying \"to start world war three\" and acting like a gangster.The US says Russia is fomenting unrest and separatist sentiment in eastern Ukraine following its annexation of the strategic Crimean peninsula. Russia accuses the US of encouraging a pro-western government in Kiev to adopt anti-Russian policies.The US accused Russia of reneging on the Ukrainian peace deal on Thursday, as both sides insisted on contradictory explanations of clashes overnight on Wednesday with pro-Russia militants.In its most explicit comments yet on the apparent collapse of last week's agreement, the US state department claimed it had seen no sign of Russia abiding by its commitments.\"Since Geneva, Russia has failed not only to provide public support for the de-escalation of tensions but has actively stoked tensions in eastern Ukraine by engaging in inflammatory rhetoric,\" the state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, told reporters.\"The secretary of state has spoken with foreign minister Lavrov six times since Geneva and he has never once taken responsibility for the implementation of Russia's Geneva commitments and he has gone so far as to say the Geneva agreement demands no action from Russia.\"Officials in Washington angrily rejected Moscow's characterisation of clashes with Ukrainian soldiers that raised tensions between the two cold war foes to dangerously high levels.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US foreign policy", "European Union"], "title": "Russia offers proposal to resolve Ukraine crisis"},{"date": "2014-06-11T11:32:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Calvert Journal introduced us to 24 photographers changing the way the world sees Russia on the Guardian New East this week. From the pre-Sochi gay scene to life in the freezing north, a new generation of photographers offering a fresh take on Russian life. What do you think of the shots? What's missing and can you help us fill in the gaps? We want you see your photos of daily life in Russia that sum up national identity. If you are celebrating Russia Day we'd love to see photos of that too. A big stage emblazoned with GO RUSSIA! being set up on Red Square ahead of Russia Day tomorrow pic.twitter.com/sH3AMczrdzShare your photos or videos with GuardianWitness by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons. If you're using our new Guardian app you can contribute here. Don\u2019t forget to tell us where you live and we\u2019ll use the best contributions on the New East Network. GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Russia", "Photography"], "title": "Daily life in Russia \u2013 share your photos"},{"date": "2014-06-06T11:05:30Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Greenpeace icebreaker confiscated by Russia after activists tried to board a Gazprom oil rig has been released. But it could take two months before the Arctic Sunrise leaves Murmansk harbour, according to the campaigning group.The ship was boarded by the Russian coast guard and towed 500 miles from the Pechora Sea to the northern Russian port of Murmansk in September 2013. Thirty activists, including six Britons, were arrested and accused of hooliganism and piracy.Although the 30 activists were all released from prison after three months of international protests, the ship remained in port pending a decision by the Russian investigative committee (IC).According to Greenpeace International lawyers, the committee unexpectedly \u201cannulled the arrest\u201d of the ship on Friday and informed the Amsterdam-based group that the ship could leave.However, Greenpeace International said it was unlikely that the Arctic Sunrise would be seaworthy for at least a month and possibly more.\u201cOur main priority now is to get the ship checked by independent surveyors to assess the level of damage since it was seized by Russian agents on 19 September. We will also be asking the Russian authorities to continue guarding the vessel until our crew arrives to take custody of it,\u201d said Daniel Simons, Greenpeace International legal counsel.Essential navigation gear is also known to have been removed from the ship and is being held separately by the Russian authorities. \u201cIt will take at least a month to prepare the ship,\u201d said Maria Favorskaya, a Greenpeace spokeswoman in Moscow.\u201cMillions of people spoke out against the illegal imprisonment of the Arctic 30, and today the final member of the group is free to come home. Our ship was confiscated during an entirely peaceful protest against Arctic drilling in international waters. There was absolutely no justification either for boarding the ship or keeping it for eight months.\u201cThis whole affair was a brazen attempt to intimidate those who believe that drilling for oil in the melting Arctic is reckless and unsafe. After months without proper maintenance our ship will need careful repairs, but like our campaign to protect the Arctic she will emerge better, fitter and stronger from this.\u201d", "tags": ["Arctic 30 protesters", "Environment", "Activism", "Greenpeace", "Protest", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Arctic", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Netherlands"], "title": "Arctic 30: Russia releases Greenpeace ship"},{"date": "2014-05-28T15:57:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Around 300 coalminers rallied in support of pro-Russia separatists in Donetsk on Wednesdayyesterday as rebel fighters fortified their positions in the city in anticipation of a possible attack by Ukrainian forces.The miners marched through the city centre to show support for the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic, waving Russian flags and banners that read: \"We will revive the power of Donbass.\"\"I want peace and to be able to work and make money. I want the occupying soldiers to leave and return to their Kiev junta,\" one protester, Valery, who works at the state-owned Abakumova mine, told Reuters.Tensions are high across the city after Kiev used warplanes on Tuesday to dislodge rebels who had seized Donetsk airport. At least 50 pro-Russia fighters were killed in the offensive. More shooting was reported around the airport on Wednesday.On Wednesday, the Kiev government claimed the dead from three days of fighting included Russians from the North Caucasus republics of Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan, as well as Serbs and Ukrainians.Dmytro Tymchuk, a government spokesman, said Ukrainian forces had recovered mortars and flamethrowers from the \"terrorists\", as well as a minibus carrying 10 anti-tank grenade launchers. The operation against \"illegal armed formations\" was continuing, he said.Alexander Borodai, the rebels' unelected prime minister, admitted that Chechen and Ossetian fighters had arrived in Donetsk. But he described them as \"volunteers\" who were protecting ethnic Russians.On Tuesday Chechen fighters told the Financial Times that Chechnya's president, Ramzan Kadyrov, had ordered them to eastern Ukraine. The fighters said they were from the \"dikaya diviziya\", or savage division. Kadyrov has denied the claim.Much of Donetsk \u2013 a city of one million \u2013 was largely deserted on Wednesday as residents stayed indoors and Ukrainian combat aircraft flew overhead. Witnesses reported hearing firing from inside the main security service building in Schorsa Street, occupied by Donetsk People's Republic fighters. The rebels claim to have shot down a pilotless drone flying over the area.The separatists seized the fire department building, removing crates and erecting barricades. Donetsk's city mayor, Oleksandr Lukyanenko, urged people nearby to stay home. \"We're asking residents of neighbouring houses not to approach the [rebel-occupied] buildings, not to come on the balconies or the street without extreme necessity,\" he said, according to the Kyiv Post.A column of rebel military vehicles was spotted early on Wednesday trundling through the city centre towards the regional administration building, occupied by the separatist leadership since April. The vehicles included an armoured personnel carrier, with fighters perched on the top, a large-calibre gun, trucks, buses and an ambulance. Kiev officials accuse the rebels of using ambulances to transport weapons and military equipment.The miners, meanwhile, said the pro-western government in Kiev was made up of \"fascists\" who had seized power illegally. Petro Poroshenko, a chocolate baron who won Sunday's presidential election by a landslide, has offered the east greater autonomy. But he has vowed to take a tough line against armed separatists who have refused to give up their weapons, comparing them to Somali pirates. Ultra-nationalist Ukrainian leaders did badly in Sunday's poll, winning only 2% of the vote.Russia wants an immediate end to Ukraine's military offensive against the rebels. It has denied arming or training the separatists, who have taken power in several cities and towns across the region, but says their calls for autonomy from Kiev are legitimate and should be addressed.On Wednesday, Denis Pushilin, the self-appointed head of the Donetsk People's Republic, suggested the armed fighters from Russia were joining the battle against Kiev. He said more and more volunteers were crossing Ukraine's long eastern border from Russia to support the rebel cause. \"We will drive fascism away,\" he declared.Coalminer Vladislav said he hoped Russia would recognise the Donetsk People's Republic as an independent state. \"But I can also live on bread and water if that is what it takes to win independence,\" he said.The Union of Mine Workers, to which most of Wednesday's protesters belong, has close links to the Party of the Regions, which ousted president Viktor Yanukovych once led.Other miners' unions distanced themselves from the rally. \"We did not organise this action,\" said Mykola Volynko, head of the Independent Miners' Trade Union of the Donbass, on Ukrainian television. \"[The protesters and the Party of the Regions] continue to do everything to break up the country.\"", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Miners hold pro-Russia rally in Donetsk"},{"date": "2014-04-25T12:29:36Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, appears to have offered a deal to resolve the crisis in eastern Ukraine, suggesting that if the country's government clears out the nationalist protest camp in Kiev, then pro-Moscow separatists will lay down their arms.Western officials greeted the proposal with scepticism, noting that such confidence-building measures were at the heart of an international agreement reached last week, but which failed to end the separatists' occupation of public buildings in eastern Ukraine. They said the protest camp in Independence Square in Kiev, erected in February during the uprising that toppled the Russian-backed president, Viktor Yanukovych, was already being dismantled.The Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe, which is monitoring the situation in Ukraine, reported that its team in the capital \"observed the ongoing clearing of barricades in the Maidan square\".\"The situation in the capital city was calm,\" the report added.One western official raised the possibility that Lavrov might be seeking to use the dismantling of the camp as a face-saving way out of the crisis, but cautioned that there were few other signs of compromise from Moscow.Lavrov's comments came as the Ukrainian government launched further military operations against some of the pro-Russian separatists who have seized government buildings across eastern Ukraine, having killed up to five rebels on Thursday.He said the pro-Russian militias in the east \"will be ready\" to lay down arms and vacate the buildings \"only if Kiev authorities get down to implementing the Geneva accords, clear out that shameful Maidan [Independence Square] and liberate the buildings that have been illegally seized\".Lavrov spoke after Barack Obama told reporters in Seoul he would call European leaders during the course of the day to discuss action since the failure of the Geneva agreement, a possible prelude to new US and EU sanctions against Russia.The crisis is already showing signs of seriously damaging the Russian economy. The Standard & Poor's credit agency cut the country's credit rating on Friday for the first time in more than five years, following concerns about capital flight and risks to investments.In unusually blunt language, the US secretary of state, John Kerry, said on Thursday that unless Moscow took immediate steps to de-escalate the situation in Ukraine, Washington would have no choice but to impose additional sanctions. He said it would be a grave and \"expensive mistake\".Kerry's comments came amid an increasingly bitter war of words over who is to blame for the crisis, which is becoming steadily more violent.The Ukrainian prime minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, made the strongest comments yet on Friday when he accused Russia of trying \"to start world war three\" and acting like a gangster.The US says Russia is fomenting unrest and separatist sentiment in eastern Ukraine following its annexation of the strategic Crimean peninsula. Russia accuses the US of encouraging a pro-western government in Kiev to adopt anti-Russian policies.The US accused Russia of reneging on the Ukrainian peace deal on Thursday, as both sides insisted on contradictory explanations of clashes overnight on Wednesday with pro-Russia militants.In its most explicit comments yet on the apparent collapse of last week's agreement, the US state department claimed it had seen no sign of Russia abiding by its commitments.\"Since Geneva, Russia has failed not only to provide public support for the de-escalation of tensions but has actively stoked tensions in eastern Ukraine by engaging in inflammatory rhetoric,\" the state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, told reporters.\"The secretary of state has spoken with foreign minister Lavrov six times since Geneva and he has never once taken responsibility for the implementation of Russia's Geneva commitments and he has gone so far as to say the Geneva agreement demands no action from Russia.\"Officials in Washington angrily rejected Moscow's characterisation of clashes with Ukrainian soldiers that raised tensions between the two cold war foes to dangerously high levels.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "US foreign policy", "European Union"], "title": "Russia offers proposal to resolve Ukraine crisis"},{"date": "2014-04-29T15:38:36Z", "country": "russia", "content": " 4.38pm BST We are wrapping up the blog for today. Thank you for your interest. 4.18pm BST In this piece, Alec Luhn in Moscow delves into the question of whether Russian troops have returned to base. Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu says they have, but Nato says it has seen no such indication.According to experts, Russian troops have \u201cstepped back\u201d from an imminent invasion but haven't pulled back from the border.Pavel Felgenhauer, a defence analyst and columnist at the independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta, said Russian forces had been on a brink of invading last Thursday, but had stopped \u201cyards short\u201d of the border after Ukrainian forces turned back an offensive on the militia-held city of Slavyansk. He said the most important factor is not distance from the border but rather the level of battle readiness.\u201cShoigu's talking about stopping an invasion for the time being, being on the brink of doing it and stepping back, but Nato's talking about moving Russian troops back to the point where it would take many hours to move in,\u201d Felgenhauer said. \u201cThey stepped back from ready to go, going in, and returned to their temporary bases where up to 12 hours' notice may be needed to deploy, but they're not withdrawing from the region or ending this standoff,\u201d he added.Ruslan Pukhov, director of the Centre for the Analysis of Strategies and Technologies, said it is possible that the troop buildup involved only soldiers from Russia's western military district, who could therefore be said to be at their \u201chome base\u201d even while they remain ready to invade Ukraine, but he could not say for sure.Felgenhauer said the window is closing for Russia to invade due to the Ukrainian presidential election planned for 25 May and the need for the Russian army to focus on its annual draft. Vladimir Putin has to \u201cmake up his mind\u201d because he \u201ccan't keep troops on such high alert indefinitely,\u201d Felgenhauer said.He said he expects further provocation from pro-Russian fighters and Russian agents in Ukraine to try to produce a casus belli for an invasion. Last week, militia blew up a military helicopter with shots to its fuel tank at Kramatorsk airfield near Slavyansk.Nato has estimated 40,000 Russian troops are massed along the border, but Felgenhauer said any invasion would involve a second wave of rearguard forces and at least 100,000 total troops. 4.00pm BST  3.38pm BST This video shows Ukrainian journalist Valentyn Chernyavsky, Michael Moore style, testing how easy it is to take over a government building. Wearing a uniform of a Russian separatist militant, armed with a mock AK-47 assault rifle, he gets a friend to drive him downtown to the provincial capital of Cherkasy, about 125 miles south of Kiev.Hilarious video in which #Ukraine journalist poses as pro-#Russia \"green man\" to expose weak security in Cherkasy: http://t.co/pc0g0YrNCI 3.20pm BST Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, says sanctions against his country lack common sense, reports Reuters.Lavrov rejected US and EU sanctions on Russia over the Ukraine crisis, saying the sanctions lacked common sense and were the result of the west's own weak policies.\"We reject sanctions in any of our relationships, in particular those sanctions that were sponsored by the United States and the European Union, which are against all common sense, regarding the events in Ukraine,\" Lavrov said in remarks in Havana before beginning a closed-door session with Cuban foreign minister Bruno Rodriguez. 3.13pm BST Alexander Zemlianichenko, who is in Luhansk for the The Associated Press, has details of the takeover of government buildings. Demonstrators seeking more power for Ukraine's regions stormed the government building in Luhansk with baseball bats, seizing control of a key site in one of the largest cities in Ukraine's troubled east. The action further raises tensions in the east, where insurgents have seized control of police stations and other government buildings in at least 10 cities and towns. The demonstrators who seized the building are seeking at the very least a referendum on granting greater authority to Ukraine's regions. The storming came as 1,000 demonstrators gathered in front of the building. About 150 people, some masked and wielding baseball bats, broke out of the crowd and charged into the building without resistance. Later protesters formed a corridor for police who had been inside the building to leave.Luhansk, a city of about 450,000, is just 25 kilometres (15 miles) west of the border with Russia. Regional autonomy is a core issue in the unrest in eastern Ukraine's, where insurgents fear the government that took power after Yanukovych will suppress the region's Russian-speakers. 2.57pm BST Anthony Woolich and Daniel Martin, partners at Holman Fenwick Willan, a law firm specialising in international commerce, echo Ian Traynor's point that wider sectoral sections will be tough for the EU to adopt.While Russia has accused the US of bringing back 'iron curtain' policies with recent additional designations of Russian individuals and entities, and indications of broader sector-focused restrictions to supplement the current measures, it may well be more difficult for the EU than the US to obtain consensus on such wider sanctions, in particular with regards to energy. The EU has closer and more extensive trade links with Russia, with around 30% of EU gas being imported from Russia and in addition, individual member states are likely to be affected to a greater or lesser extent by particular restrictions (eg those affecting finance will affect in particular the UK, and those affecting energy and trade are liable to have most impact on Germany and France).Before any further sanctions are imposed, there would need to be confidence that alternative supplies would be available on comparable terms. The effect on existing contracts would need to be considered carefully. To date, EU member states have adopted generally a collective approach to the adoption of targeted sanctions, although individual member states may add asset freeze targets to those listed by the EU, and at the moment it looks likely that such a collective approach will continue. 2.43pm BST Stephen Jones, professor of Russian Studies at Mount Holyoke College, argues on the Conversation website that Putin might enjoy short-term benefits but that the newly-acquired territories will eventually become an albatrossRussia has a weak economy; its GDP growth is in decline, and corruption is endemic. These revanchist efforts offer only temporary relief. In the short-term, Russia\u2019s democrats will suffer as Russia glories in its victories, but the newly acquired territories will come at a great price. Since 2008, 27 billion roubles have disappeared without trace in South Ossetia, the smallest of the acquisitions; Crimea is 40 times its size, with 2m inhabitants.Crime, corruption, and smuggling will tarnish these victories before long. They will end up as instruments in the hands of Putin\u2019s opponents, who will decry the leader\u2019s follies in their appeals to citizens infuriated by economic stagnation. These expansions into weak neighbouring states are not only demonstrating the hollowness of Russia\u2019s modernisation and growth \u2013 they are actually hastening its economic and political decline. 2.35pm BST  2.30pm BST You can watch a livestream from Luhansk here. 2.29pm BST Pro-Russia activists - some in masks and military fatigues - have just seized the regional administration building in #Luhansk 2.25pm BST  2.23pm BST There has been another takeover of government buildings, this time in the city of Luhansk. This from Reuters.Hundreds of pro-Russian separatists stormed the regional government headquarters in Ukraine's eastern city of Luhansk on Tuesday, unopposed by police, and the Ukrainian government said they also planned to seize the local television centre.The government in Kiev has all but lost control of its police forces in parts of eastern Ukraine, where pro-Russian activists have seized buildings in the region's second biggest city of Donetsk and several smaller towns.\"The regional leadership does not control its police force,\" said Stanislav Rechynsky, an aide to interior minister Arsen Avakov. \"The local police did nothing.\"He added that the ministry had information that the separatists would next try to take the local television centre.Video footage showed men, some dressed in green camouflage fatigues and holding shields, walking around what appeared to be the foyer of the building as hundreds massed outside the building's large wooden doors.Pro-Russian separatists had previously occupied only the local security services' building in Luhansk, which they took in early April. 2.12pm BST The Guardian's Luke Harding writes from Donetsk, where pro-Russian militants yesterday set upon people marching in favour of Ukrainian unity.Serhiy Taruta, the Kiev-appointed governor of the Donetsk region, has put out a statement condemning yesterday's attack by pro-Russian thugs on a peaceful rally in Donetsk.Taruta said that 14 people had ended up in hospital after \"criminal elements\" assaulted participants of a rally in support of Ukrainian unity. \"I consider it unacceptable that if you go out on the streets wearing the colours of your country you run the risk of receiving serious injuries from an aggressive crowd,\" he said, Taruta praised the \"bravery and devotion\" of those who had shown what he called a \"civic position\".He also had harsh words for the masked activists from the \"Donetsk People's Republic\", who attacked peaceful demonstrators with clubs and iron rods, and ripped down pro-Ukraine banners. \"Not one of your ideas is worth a human life. Not one of your words justifies violence. Let me be clear - you don't have the right to thrust your will on the Donbass region\". 12.59pm BST It is ironic that Russia has accused the west of bringing back the iron curtain of the late 1940s. It was of course Winston Churchill who had accused Stalin of bringing down an iron curtain across Europe. Here is that historic speech, officially called \"Sinews of Peace\" made in Fulton, Missouri in 1945. The phrase occurs well into the discourse.From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, an iron curtain has descended across the continent. Behind that line lie all the capitals of the ancient states of central and eastern Europe. Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest and Sofia, all these famous cities and the populations around them lie in what I must call the Soviet sphere, and all are subject in one form or another, not only to Soviet influence but to a very high and, in many cases, increasing measure of control from Moscow. 12.45pm BST Ukraine's gross domestic product shrank an estimated 1% in the first quarter of 2014, compared with the same period last year. \"The first quarter result is better than we expected,\" deputy economy minister Anatoliy Maksyuta told a briefing. \"...It will be roughly minus 1%, according to our estimates.\"  12.35pm BST Tim Judah, who covered the Balkan wars in the 1990s, has this thoughtful piece in the New York Review of Books. Here's an extract on how the people in eastern Ukraine are being subjected to Russian propaganda about the \"fascists\" taking over in Kiev.Talk to people manning the anti-government barricades and taking part in the demonstrations against Kiev here, however, and one thing in particular is scary. After a day or two you realize that they all say more or less the same thing. \u201cWe want to be listened to,\u201d people say. The government in Kiev, which took power after the pro-European revolution there, is a \u201cfascist junta\u201d backed by Europe and the US.It is as though the Russian media\u2014which is widely watched and read here\u2014has somehow embedded these messages into the heads of people and they have lost the ability to think for themselves. Those who are angry talk as though they were a long persecuted minority, as if they have forgotten that easterners under former president Viktor Yanukovych ran the country until February. Everyone here has been robbed blind by politicians in a system that was as corrupt as can be, but all that seems to be registering right now is a nationalist and hysterical drumbeat from Russia about the new Nazis of Kiev and their Nato masters.Now the Russian media says the fascists have returned. And of course, just as there were indeed then some admirers of Croatia\u2019s wartime fascists, there are some right-wing nationalists in Ukraine now; the big lie is to give them a significance they simply don\u2019t have. 12.23pm BST  12.04pm BST  Visa, the US credit card company, is to suspend network services to Russian banks SMP and InvestCapitalbank, to comply with US law. This from Reuters.\"We regret any disruptions that the institutions, their cardholders or merchants may experience,\" Visa said in a statement. \"All of Visa's systems are processing normally, and we continue to service our other unaffected Russian clients.\" Rival MasterCard Inc said yesterday it would suspend services in the near future to cards issued by SMP bank and InvestCapitalbank. InvestCapitalbank and SMP bank are controlled by the Rotenberg brothers, Boris and Arkady. The Rotenbergs, linked to big contracts on gas pipelines and at the Sochi Olympics, were named on a previous US sanctions list issued in March after Russia annexed the Crimea region of Ukraine. Russia recently revived plans to develop its own card payment system to cut its dependence on Visa and Mastercard . 11.58am BST Anti-corruption experts from around the world are in London to discuss the retrieval of assets worth billions of pounds stolen from Ukraine by former president Viktor Yanukovych and his regime. The Press Associations reports:Home secretary Theresa May, co-hosting the Ukraine Forum on Asset Recovery at Lancaster House with US attorney general Eric Holder, said that the meeting was a \"tangible manifestation\" of determination not to allow impunity to leaders who loot the assets of their own countries. Asked whether the White House was considering targeting the personal assets of Russian president Vladimir Putin himself, Holder said: \"We believe that Russia must cease its illegal intervention and its provocative actions in Ukraine and we remain prepared to impose further sanctions if that doesn't occur.\"Ukraine's general prosecutor Oleh Makhnitskyi told the London forum that the country has already identified stolen assets totalling at least 35bn Ukrainian hryvnias (\u00a31.8bn) and expects the eventual total to amount to tens of billions of US dollars. Funds are believed to have been transferred to international bank accounts in countries around the world. Describing the Yanukovych regime as an \"organised criminal group\" whose tentacles reached throughout the administration, Makhnitskyi said: \"The new government was set up and we found that our treasury was empty and the funds were misappropriated.\" Holder announced the creation of a kleptocracy squad within the FBI tasked with \"aggressively investigating and prosecuting corruption cases not only in Ukraine, but around the world\".  May said officials from Britain's National Crime Agency and Crown Prosecution Service have already travelled to Ukraine to offer their assistance.  11.36am BST Updated at 11.44am BST 11.17am BST Around 2,000 pro-Ukrainian protesters march through the city of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine on Monday, resulting in violent clashesUpdated at 11.21am BST 11.07am BST Alec Luhn assesses the latest EU sanctions and provides details on those targeted.The EU sanctions on 15 Russian officials announced Tuesday lacked the punch of the preceding US sanctions, since they did not target officials overseeing Russia's state-owned oil giant Rosneft or the assets of Kremlin-connected oligarchs. However, they did target General Valery Gerasimov, chief of the Russian general staff, deputy prime minister Dmitry Kozak, who has been charged with developing Crimea, and several leaders of the pro-Russian militia and protestors who have been occupying buildings in eastern Ukraine. EU countries depend heavily on Russian oil and gas exports.Among the pro-Russian leaders, most of whom were little-known before the wave of unrest, was Igor Strelkov, cited by some media as the head of the Donbass People's Militia. He is also reputed to be one of the \u201clittle green men\u201d Russia has allegedly sent to promote unrest in eastern Ukraine, and EU officials identified him as a Russian military intelligence officer and an advisor to Crimean PM Sergei Aksyonov. Denis Pushilin, the prime minister of the self-declared \u201cDonetsk People's Republic,\u201d was also included on the list. Little-known before the occupation of the Donetsk regional administration building, Pushilin previously worked for MMM, a company that ran a notorious pyramid scheme in the 1990s. After Russia, Ukraine, the United States and the EU negotiated a plan in Geneva to defuse the crisis in Ukraine, Pushilin refused to recognise the agreement, saying the Donetsk protestors would refuse to leave the buildings they've taken until the Kiev government leaves its buildings, and they hold a referendum on the region's fate.Several other pro-Russian leaders from Donetsk also fell under sanctions. Little is known about Andrei Purgin, besides the fact that he is a pan-Slavic activist who has agitated against the new pro-western government in Kiev. According to a social network page apparently belonging to him, he holds an IT degree from a Donetsk university and is now the co-chairman of the Donetsk People's Republic. Sergei Tsyplakov is reportedly the deputy head of the Donbass People's Militia and is also apparently a long-time pro-Russian activist. He told Russian state news agency RIA Novosti that he was \u201cextremely proud\u201d of his inclusion on the list, adding that the sanctions are laughable.Two protest leaders from the neighbouring Luhansk region, where heavily armed men have been holding the regional security service headquarters, also face visa bans. Valery Bolotov, a commander of the Army of the Southeast group that has been occupying the building, was announced as the \u201cpeople's governor\u201d of Luhansk last week. The protestors soon followed Donetsk's example and declared a \u201cLuhansk People's Republic.\u201dGerman Prokopyev is also reportedly a leader of the Luhansk militia, but even less is known about him than about the other pro-Russian leaders.Updated at 11.22am BST 11.00am BST The German government is none too pleased that former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der is being feted by Putin. Schr\u00f6der attended a meeting in St Petersburg, Russia, of gas pipeline operator Nord Stream AG, of which he is board chairman. After the event Putin reportedly turned up for a celebration in honour of Schroeder's 70th birthday.A senior German official, has stressed that Schr\u00f6der was not in Russia on behalf of Angela Merkel's government. An opponent of EU sanctions on Russia, Schr\u00f6der has compared Russia's annexation of Crimea to Nato's intervention in Kosovo in 1999. Merkel rejected the parallel as \"shameful\".Updated at 1.03pm BST 10.51am BST Catherine Ashton, the EU's foreign policy chief, says the EU announced sanctions against 15 Russians because of the threat to Ukraine's territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. Here is part of her statement.I am alarmed by the worsening security situation in Eastern Ukraine. The downward spiral of violence and intimidation undermines the normal functioning of the legitimates tate institutions. A number of people have been killed, wounded, tortured or kidnapped in the last few days. I notably condemn the shooting of mayor of Kharkiv Henadiy Kernes yesterday and the detention of military observers from OSCE participating States in Slavyansk by armed separatists since last Friday. All persons still illegally detained by armed groups in Eastern Ukraine need to be immediately released. I am also concerned about continued attacks on journalists and the deterioration of media freedom environment in Eastern Ukraine, including the illegal seizure of TV transmission towers. 10.36am BST Russia's foreign ministry has responded to the latest set of EU sanctions with criticism of the EU. \"Instead of forcing the Kiev clique to sit at the table with southeastern Ukraine to negotiate the future structure of the country, our partners are doing Washington's bidding with new unfriendly gestures aimed at Russia,\" a statement said.\"This is a revival of a system created in 1949 when western countries essentially lowered an 'iron curtain', cutting off supplies of hi-tech goods to the USSR and other countries,\" said Russian deputy foreign minister Sergei Ryabkov.Updated at 11.12am BST 10.04am BST Reuters has this newsflash: Nato has no information indicating a withdrawal of Russian troops from the Ukrainian border. 9.56am BST  The self-declared mayor of Slavyansk, a pro-Russian separatist stronghold, has said he would discuss the release of detained military observers with the west only if the EU dropped sanctions against rebel leaders. Reuters reports: Vyacheslav Ponomaryov told Interfax news agency the imposition of visa bans and asset freezes against Denis Pushilin, leader of the self-styled People's Republic of Donetsk, and Andrei Purgin, another leader in the eastern region, \"was not conducive to dialogue\". \"We will resume dialogue on the status of the prisoners of war only when the European Union rejects these sanctions,\" he said. \"If they fail to remove the sanctions, then we will block access for EU representatives, and they won't be able to get to us. I will remind my guests from the OSCE about this.\" The six observers were in Ukraine under the auspices of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), a democracy watchdog. They were detained last week after separatists said they had found a Ukrainian spy with them. 9.51am BST Those Russian military exercises near the border with Ukraine seem to be winding down. The Guardian's Alec Luhn writes from Moscow.Russia has called back military forces who were conducting exercises along the Ukraine border, news agency Interfax reported. Defence minister Sergei Shoigu told this to his US counterpart Chuck Hagel in a phone conversation, it said. \"As soon as the Ukrainian authorities announced they didn't have any intention of using regular military units against the unarmed population, Russian divisions were returned to their home bases,\" the Defence Ministry said in a statement on Monday.Shoigu said Russia had announced the exercises on 24 April after the Kiev government concentrated 80 tanks, more than 130 fighting vehicles and transports and more than 60 artillery pieces in southeastern Ukraine.Updated at 10.04am BST 9.36am BST The BBC's Steve Rosenberg tweets on the latest sanctions.I doubt those members of Donbass People Militia/Donetsk People's Republic/Lugansk Guard in EU sanctions list will be quaking in their boots 9.34am BST The Russian markets may be untroubled so far, but Gazprom sounds worried although it has not been targeted by sanctions yet. It says any expansion of sanctions could lead to adverse consequences for its business and shares, reports Reuters. The company, which meets 30% of Europe's gas demand, also said in its financial report that a pricing disagreement with Kiev could potentially lead to a disruption of its gas exports to Europe through pipelines crossing Ukraine. 9.29am BST Russian finance minister Anton Siluanov says he sees no immediate impact on Russia's hi-tech companies from US sanctions imposed yesterday.  \"I cannot see at the moment that any companies will suffer,\" Siluanov told journalists, Reuters reports. Vladimir Putin said yesterday that Russia will be able to replace any defence industry imports lost due to the Ukraine crisis with its own products.The Russian stock market has not been too bothered by the latest western sanctions. Russia's main indexes, the rouble-traded MICEX and the dollar-denominated RTS index, both rose in early trading, up 1.8% and 1.1% respectively. Stocks closed up yesterday on relief that no major listed companies were included in the sanctions. 9.19am BST The mayor of Kharkiv, who is fighting for his life after being shot in the back, has been flown to Israel for treatment, Agence France-Presse reports. Kharkiv is Ukraine's second largest city. The shooting came as pro-Russian thugs broke up a pro-Ukraine rally in Donetsk.Yury Sydorenko, director of information at Kharkiv city council, said in a statement that Israeli doctors decided after examining his wounds that mayor Gennady Kernes, who is Jewish, could be transported.\"At half past two, he was driven to the airport,\" Sydorenko added. The shooting of Kernes in Ukraine's second-largest city was the latest violent incident in the east of the country where authorities have launched what they call an \"anti-terrorism\" operation against pro-Russian separatists. He appeared to be targeted by a sniper although the exact circumstances and motivations behind his shooting remained unclear. Locals officials say he was cycling but his entourage said he was jogging. The city council said he was \"hit by a bullet in the back\". The doctor who performed emergency surgery on him, Valeriy Boyko, said the mayor's life was \"in danger\". 9.10am BST The EU has imposed asset freezes and travel bans on 15 Russians, including deputy prime minister Dmitry Nikolayevich Kozak and a deputy chairman of the Duma - the lower house of Russia's parliament - Ludmila Ivanovna Shvetsova. Others on the EU include Valery Vasilevich Gerasimov, chief of staff of Russia's armed forces, as well as separatist leaders. The move follows yesterday's sanctions announced by the US targeting seven prominent Russians, including the head of Rosfnet, Russia's largest oil company, and 17 Russian companies. But as the Guardian's Ian Traynor writes from Brussels, there is little to suggest the two stages of western sanctions already being implemented will change Vladimir Putin's ways. Tier Three sanctions - sectoral measures on trade, energy, finance and military equipment - are a different story. But Traynor says there is little stomach for such sweeping moves as the result would be a trade war that would damage a weak European economy.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "European Union"], "title": "Ukraine: EU imposes new sanctions on Russia"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-08-29T09:10:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has accused Russia of sending troops into Ukraine and being responsible for a surge in violence in the country.Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the US president said Russia was encouraging, training, arming and funding separatists in the region and warned Moscow that it faced further isolation.He said: \"Russia has deliberately and repeatedly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the new images of Russian forces inside Ukraine make that plain for the world to see. This comes as Ukrainian forces are making progress against the separatists.\"Obama again ruled out US military action, but claimed Russia's increasing involvement in Ukraine \"will only bring more costs and consequences for Russia\", threatening a further tightening of sanctions.Obama said: \"As a result of the actions Russia has already taken, and the major sanctions we've imposed with our European and international partners, Russia is already more isolated that at any time since the end of the cold war. Capital is fleeing. Investors are increasingly staying out. Its economy is in decline.\"He added that he would reaffirm the US's \"unwavering commitment to \u2026 Ukraine and its people\" when President Petro Poroshenko visited the White House in September.\"We are not taking military action to solve the Ukrainian problem. What we're doing is to mobilise the international community to apply pressure on Russia,\" he told reporters.Obama's comments come after photographs showed Russian soldiers in uniform and Russian weapons in action in a renewed offensive against Ukrainian troops.At an emergency meeting of the UN security council Britain's ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, accused Russia of deploying more than 1,000 troops.\"Formed units of the armed forces of the Russian Federation are now directly engaged in fighting inside Ukraine against the armed forces of Ukraine. These units consist of well over 1,000 regular Russian troops equipped with armoured vehicles, artillery and air defence systems,\" he said.A state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, amplified Obama's comments with details of Russia's involvement in Ukraine.\"Russia has ... stepped up its presence in eastern Ukraine and intervened directly with combat forces, armoured vehicles, artillery, and surface-to-air systems, and is actively fighting Ukrainian forces as well as playing a direct supporting role to the separatists' proxies and mercenaries,\" she told a media briefing.US ambassador Samantha Power accused Russia of lying about its involvement in Ukraine. \"It has manipulated. It has obfuscated. It has outright lied,\" she said.\"The mask is coming off. In these acts, these recent acts, we see Russia's actions for what they are: a deliberate effort to support, and now fight alongside, illegal separatists in another sovereign country.\"Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, responded: \"There are Russian volunteers in eastern parts of Ukraine. No one is hiding that.\"Moscow has said some Russians have, in their own time, gone to Ukraine to support the cause of the separatists.He urged the US to \"stop interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states.\"The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has yet to respond directly to Obama's accusations. But he called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a humanitarian corridor to allow besieged Ukrainian troops to retreat.\"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations,\" Putin said in a statement.Encircled Ukrainian fighters have been engaged in a fight for survival in the town of Ilovaysk for more than a week as pro-Russian rebels, who had been on the retreat, staged a swift counter-offensive.Putin addressed the separatists directly as defenders of \"Novorossiya\", or New Russia.Putin called on Kiev to \"immediately halt military action, cease fire, sit down at the negotiating table and speak with representatives of the Donbass, and solve all of the problems which have built up exclusively by peaceful means\".The Russian president called on the rebels to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers with medical help and said Russia was \"ready and will provide humanitarian aid to the people of the Donbass who are suffering from this humanitarian catastrophe\".Last week Russia sent into eastern Ukraine a convoy of more than 200 lorries, which it said was carrying more than 1,800 tonnes of aid, without the permission of Kiev and without Red Cross monitors.The unilateral move was condemned by Kiev and the west, who were concerned an inadvertent attack on the official convoy might serve as a pretext for Russia to send in troops.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Ukraine", "US politics"], "title": "Obama ramps up Russia rhetoric"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-08-29T09:10:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has accused Russia of sending troops into Ukraine and being responsible for a surge in violence in the country.Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the US president said Russia was encouraging, training, arming and funding separatists in the region and warned Moscow that it faced further isolation.He said: \"Russia has deliberately and repeatedly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the new images of Russian forces inside Ukraine make that plain for the world to see. This comes as Ukrainian forces are making progress against the separatists.\"Obama again ruled out US military action, but claimed Russia's increasing involvement in Ukraine \"will only bring more costs and consequences for Russia\", threatening a further tightening of sanctions.Obama said: \"As a result of the actions Russia has already taken, and the major sanctions we've imposed with our European and international partners, Russia is already more isolated that at any time since the end of the cold war. Capital is fleeing. Investors are increasingly staying out. Its economy is in decline.\"He added that he would reaffirm the US's \"unwavering commitment to \u2026 Ukraine and its people\" when President Petro Poroshenko visited the White House in September.\"We are not taking military action to solve the Ukrainian problem. What we're doing is to mobilise the international community to apply pressure on Russia,\" he told reporters.Obama's comments come after photographs showed Russian soldiers in uniform and Russian weapons in action in a renewed offensive against Ukrainian troops.At an emergency meeting of the UN security council Britain's ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, accused Russia of deploying more than 1,000 troops.\"Formed units of the armed forces of the Russian Federation are now directly engaged in fighting inside Ukraine against the armed forces of Ukraine. These units consist of well over 1,000 regular Russian troops equipped with armoured vehicles, artillery and air defence systems,\" he said.A state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, amplified Obama's comments with details of Russia's involvement in Ukraine.\"Russia has ... stepped up its presence in eastern Ukraine and intervened directly with combat forces, armoured vehicles, artillery, and surface-to-air systems, and is actively fighting Ukrainian forces as well as playing a direct supporting role to the separatists' proxies and mercenaries,\" she told a media briefing.US ambassador Samantha Power accused Russia of lying about its involvement in Ukraine. \"It has manipulated. It has obfuscated. It has outright lied,\" she said.\"The mask is coming off. In these acts, these recent acts, we see Russia's actions for what they are: a deliberate effort to support, and now fight alongside, illegal separatists in another sovereign country.\"Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, responded: \"There are Russian volunteers in eastern parts of Ukraine. No one is hiding that.\"Moscow has said some Russians have, in their own time, gone to Ukraine to support the cause of the separatists.He urged the US to \"stop interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states.\"The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has yet to respond directly to Obama's accusations. But he called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a humanitarian corridor to allow besieged Ukrainian troops to retreat.\"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations,\" Putin said in a statement.Encircled Ukrainian fighters have been engaged in a fight for survival in the town of Ilovaysk for more than a week as pro-Russian rebels, who had been on the retreat, staged a swift counter-offensive.Putin addressed the separatists directly as defenders of \"Novorossiya\", or New Russia.Putin called on Kiev to \"immediately halt military action, cease fire, sit down at the negotiating table and speak with representatives of the Donbass, and solve all of the problems which have built up exclusively by peaceful means\".The Russian president called on the rebels to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers with medical help and said Russia was \"ready and will provide humanitarian aid to the people of the Donbass who are suffering from this humanitarian catastrophe\".Last week Russia sent into eastern Ukraine a convoy of more than 200 lorries, which it said was carrying more than 1,800 tonnes of aid, without the permission of Kiev and without Red Cross monitors.The unilateral move was condemned by Kiev and the west, who were concerned an inadvertent attack on the official convoy might serve as a pretext for Russia to send in troops.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Ukraine", "US politics"], "title": "Obama ramps up Russia rhetoric"},{"date": "2014-08-05T16:56:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have banned a Siberian independence march and threatened to block the BBC Russian service over its coverage of separatist protests.In sharp contrast to the treatment of separatists in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, Moscow has made it clear that it does not welcome similar aspirations at home.The media watchdog may block the website of the BBC Russian service over an interview with Artyom Loskutov, an organiser of the March for Siberian Federalisation, the newspaper Izvestiya reported on Tuesday. The march was due to take place on 17 August in Novosibirsk, Siberia's largest city.The federal communications monitoring service has sent a letter demanding the interview be deleted for violating a recently passed law against \"calls to mass unrest, extremist activities or participation in illegal public events\".The BBC said it had no plans to remove the material in question and had requested an interview with Russian officials about the matter.Russia's prosecutor general has issued warnings to 14 media outlets covering the protest under the country's extremism law, and blocked an event page for the march on Russia's most popular social network. The editor of Slon.ru, which was forced by the prosecutor general to remove an interview with Loskutov, later argued in a Facebook post that the article had not been in violation of the extremism law because it did not name a specific time or place. It also noted that the activists had not yet been given permission for the march.The Novosibirsk mayor's office reportedly denied permission on Tuesday to hold the march \"in order to ensure the inviolability of the constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Russian Federation\".Loskutov, an artist who is known for organising an annual absurdist rally called Monstration, told the Guardian that the activists had re-applied for permission to hold a March for the Inviolability and Observation of the Principles of Federalism.Washington and Kiev have said Russia is providing arms, men and funding to the separatist rebels fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine, while cracking down on similar trends at home. Moscow passed a law in December to make spreading separatist views punishable by up to five years in jail.Loskutov said the Novosibirsk protest was meant to both ridicule the Kremlin's hypocrisy on self-determination in Ukraine and to raise the issue of Siberia's delayed development. Most of Russia's oil and gas output comes from western Siberia, but the region lags behind Moscow, St Petersburg and some southern areas in quality of life ratings.\"It's using the rhetoric that our government and their propaganda use,\" Loskutov said. \"They decided to tell us how great it is when some republic moves for self-determination. Okay, well let's apply this to other regions. Can Siberia allow itself this same rhetoric? It turns out it can't.\"Olesya Gerasimenko, a correspondent for the Kommersantnewspaper, said most Russians in the regions would not support secession, but would back greater economic autonomy, including measures forcing resource extraction companies to pay taxes in the regions where they operate rather than in Moscow.\"If we support the Ukrainian people's right to federalisation, why don't we support the Russian people's right to federalisation?\" Gerasimenko asked. \"The mood of the separatists in Russia is socio-economic in nature, not for the autonomy of a certain region, so this is all exaggerated. But in light of recent events in Ukraine, it seems more dangerous.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Russia bans Siberia independence march"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-08-29T09:10:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has accused Russia of sending troops into Ukraine and being responsible for a surge in violence in the country.Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the US president said Russia was encouraging, training, arming and funding separatists in the region and warned Moscow that it faced further isolation.He said: \"Russia has deliberately and repeatedly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the new images of Russian forces inside Ukraine make that plain for the world to see. This comes as Ukrainian forces are making progress against the separatists.\"Obama again ruled out US military action, but claimed Russia's increasing involvement in Ukraine \"will only bring more costs and consequences for Russia\", threatening a further tightening of sanctions.Obama said: \"As a result of the actions Russia has already taken, and the major sanctions we've imposed with our European and international partners, Russia is already more isolated that at any time since the end of the cold war. Capital is fleeing. Investors are increasingly staying out. Its economy is in decline.\"He added that he would reaffirm the US's \"unwavering commitment to \u2026 Ukraine and its people\" when President Petro Poroshenko visited the White House in September.\"We are not taking military action to solve the Ukrainian problem. What we're doing is to mobilise the international community to apply pressure on Russia,\" he told reporters.Obama's comments come after photographs showed Russian soldiers in uniform and Russian weapons in action in a renewed offensive against Ukrainian troops.At an emergency meeting of the UN security council Britain's ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, accused Russia of deploying more than 1,000 troops.\"Formed units of the armed forces of the Russian Federation are now directly engaged in fighting inside Ukraine against the armed forces of Ukraine. These units consist of well over 1,000 regular Russian troops equipped with armoured vehicles, artillery and air defence systems,\" he said.A state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, amplified Obama's comments with details of Russia's involvement in Ukraine.\"Russia has ... stepped up its presence in eastern Ukraine and intervened directly with combat forces, armoured vehicles, artillery, and surface-to-air systems, and is actively fighting Ukrainian forces as well as playing a direct supporting role to the separatists' proxies and mercenaries,\" she told a media briefing.US ambassador Samantha Power accused Russia of lying about its involvement in Ukraine. \"It has manipulated. It has obfuscated. It has outright lied,\" she said.\"The mask is coming off. In these acts, these recent acts, we see Russia's actions for what they are: a deliberate effort to support, and now fight alongside, illegal separatists in another sovereign country.\"Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, responded: \"There are Russian volunteers in eastern parts of Ukraine. No one is hiding that.\"Moscow has said some Russians have, in their own time, gone to Ukraine to support the cause of the separatists.He urged the US to \"stop interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states.\"The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has yet to respond directly to Obama's accusations. But he called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a humanitarian corridor to allow besieged Ukrainian troops to retreat.\"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations,\" Putin said in a statement.Encircled Ukrainian fighters have been engaged in a fight for survival in the town of Ilovaysk for more than a week as pro-Russian rebels, who had been on the retreat, staged a swift counter-offensive.Putin addressed the separatists directly as defenders of \"Novorossiya\", or New Russia.Putin called on Kiev to \"immediately halt military action, cease fire, sit down at the negotiating table and speak with representatives of the Donbass, and solve all of the problems which have built up exclusively by peaceful means\".The Russian president called on the rebels to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers with medical help and said Russia was \"ready and will provide humanitarian aid to the people of the Donbass who are suffering from this humanitarian catastrophe\".Last week Russia sent into eastern Ukraine a convoy of more than 200 lorries, which it said was carrying more than 1,800 tonnes of aid, without the permission of Kiev and without Red Cross monitors.The unilateral move was condemned by Kiev and the west, who were concerned an inadvertent attack on the official convoy might serve as a pretext for Russia to send in troops.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Ukraine", "US politics"], "title": "Obama ramps up Russia rhetoric"},{"date": "2014-08-05T16:56:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have banned a Siberian independence march and threatened to block the BBC Russian service over its coverage of separatist protests.In sharp contrast to the treatment of separatists in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, Moscow has made it clear that it does not welcome similar aspirations at home.The media watchdog may block the website of the BBC Russian service over an interview with Artyom Loskutov, an organiser of the March for Siberian Federalisation, the newspaper Izvestiya reported on Tuesday. The march was due to take place on 17 August in Novosibirsk, Siberia's largest city.The federal communications monitoring service has sent a letter demanding the interview be deleted for violating a recently passed law against \"calls to mass unrest, extremist activities or participation in illegal public events\".The BBC said it had no plans to remove the material in question and had requested an interview with Russian officials about the matter.Russia's prosecutor general has issued warnings to 14 media outlets covering the protest under the country's extremism law, and blocked an event page for the march on Russia's most popular social network. The editor of Slon.ru, which was forced by the prosecutor general to remove an interview with Loskutov, later argued in a Facebook post that the article had not been in violation of the extremism law because it did not name a specific time or place. It also noted that the activists had not yet been given permission for the march.The Novosibirsk mayor's office reportedly denied permission on Tuesday to hold the march \"in order to ensure the inviolability of the constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Russian Federation\".Loskutov, an artist who is known for organising an annual absurdist rally called Monstration, told the Guardian that the activists had re-applied for permission to hold a March for the Inviolability and Observation of the Principles of Federalism.Washington and Kiev have said Russia is providing arms, men and funding to the separatist rebels fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine, while cracking down on similar trends at home. Moscow passed a law in December to make spreading separatist views punishable by up to five years in jail.Loskutov said the Novosibirsk protest was meant to both ridicule the Kremlin's hypocrisy on self-determination in Ukraine and to raise the issue of Siberia's delayed development. Most of Russia's oil and gas output comes from western Siberia, but the region lags behind Moscow, St Petersburg and some southern areas in quality of life ratings.\"It's using the rhetoric that our government and their propaganda use,\" Loskutov said. \"They decided to tell us how great it is when some republic moves for self-determination. Okay, well let's apply this to other regions. Can Siberia allow itself this same rhetoric? It turns out it can't.\"Olesya Gerasimenko, a correspondent for the Kommersantnewspaper, said most Russians in the regions would not support secession, but would back greater economic autonomy, including measures forcing resource extraction companies to pay taxes in the regions where they operate rather than in Moscow.\"If we support the Ukrainian people's right to federalisation, why don't we support the Russian people's right to federalisation?\" Gerasimenko asked. \"The mood of the separatists in Russia is socio-economic in nature, not for the autonomy of a certain region, so this is all exaggerated. But in light of recent events in Ukraine, it seems more dangerous.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Russia bans Siberia independence march"},{"date": "2014-07-31T18:08:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A law that comes into effect in Russia on Friday will place tighter controls on the blogosphere, one of the few remaining places where people can freely criticise the government.The federal mass media watchdog has said the law is meant to \"de-anonymise popular websites\". Prominent bloggers argue it is yet another step to crack down on free expression and will be wielded against critics of the regime.Popularly known as the \"law on bloggers,\" the legislation requires users of any website whose posts are read by more than 3,000 people each day to publish under their real name and register with the authorities if requested. It also holds popular bloggers to the same standards as the mass media, forbidding false information and foul language, although it doesn't guarantee them the same rights. Violators could incur fines of up to 50,000 rubles (\u00a3800) and be blacklisted.Facebook, Twitter, LiveJournal and other social media sites regulated under the new law played an instrumental role in organising the protests against president Vladimir Putin in 2011-13 and have provided a vital platform for critical voices, since most nationwide television and print media is controlled by the government.Already, the authorities enjoy sweeping powers under a 2013 law to close down websites for advocating \"extremist activities\" or \"participation in public events held in breach of appropriate procedures.\" In March, the media watchdog blocked three opposition news portals and the LiveJournal blog of opposition leader and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny, who specialises in expos\u00e9s on the luxurious real estate owned by prominent officials, replete with documents and photographs.Popular blogger and media entrepreneur Anton Nosik called the law on bloggers unconstitutional and said it was meant to intimidate regime critics.\"It's about creating a situation where big brother is watching you,\" said Nosik. \"You are part of a list, you are being watched, being observed, you are being served notices and could even serve a criminal sentence if you choose to speak out.\"Another prominent blogger, Leonid Kaganov, told the magazine Afisha that the legislation was yet another attempt to transfer regulating power from the judicial system to unknown officials and \"bring the authorities' relationship with its citizens into a shadow realm.\"Bloggers have also complained that the law's terminology is too vague, and wondered how the media watchdog could possibly hope to regulate all site users and reliably count their readers. After parliament passed the law in April, LiveJournal stopped listing the exact number of followers for bloggers with more than 2,500.The deputy head of the media watchdog, Maxim Ksenzov, recently suggested that the legislation would be applied selectively, telling the news site Lenta.ru that: \"If you post kitten pics, speak in a civilized manner and publish no classified information, you may never be required [to register], even if you have a daily audience of 1 million visitors.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Blogging", "Digital media", "Media"], "title": "Russia tightens controls on blogosphere"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-08-29T09:10:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has accused Russia of sending troops into Ukraine and being responsible for a surge in violence in the country.Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the US president said Russia was encouraging, training, arming and funding separatists in the region and warned Moscow that it faced further isolation.He said: \"Russia has deliberately and repeatedly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the new images of Russian forces inside Ukraine make that plain for the world to see. This comes as Ukrainian forces are making progress against the separatists.\"Obama again ruled out US military action, but claimed Russia's increasing involvement in Ukraine \"will only bring more costs and consequences for Russia\", threatening a further tightening of sanctions.Obama said: \"As a result of the actions Russia has already taken, and the major sanctions we've imposed with our European and international partners, Russia is already more isolated that at any time since the end of the cold war. Capital is fleeing. Investors are increasingly staying out. Its economy is in decline.\"He added that he would reaffirm the US's \"unwavering commitment to \u2026 Ukraine and its people\" when President Petro Poroshenko visited the White House in September.\"We are not taking military action to solve the Ukrainian problem. What we're doing is to mobilise the international community to apply pressure on Russia,\" he told reporters.Obama's comments come after photographs showed Russian soldiers in uniform and Russian weapons in action in a renewed offensive against Ukrainian troops.At an emergency meeting of the UN security council Britain's ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, accused Russia of deploying more than 1,000 troops.\"Formed units of the armed forces of the Russian Federation are now directly engaged in fighting inside Ukraine against the armed forces of Ukraine. These units consist of well over 1,000 regular Russian troops equipped with armoured vehicles, artillery and air defence systems,\" he said.A state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, amplified Obama's comments with details of Russia's involvement in Ukraine.\"Russia has ... stepped up its presence in eastern Ukraine and intervened directly with combat forces, armoured vehicles, artillery, and surface-to-air systems, and is actively fighting Ukrainian forces as well as playing a direct supporting role to the separatists' proxies and mercenaries,\" she told a media briefing.US ambassador Samantha Power accused Russia of lying about its involvement in Ukraine. \"It has manipulated. It has obfuscated. It has outright lied,\" she said.\"The mask is coming off. In these acts, these recent acts, we see Russia's actions for what they are: a deliberate effort to support, and now fight alongside, illegal separatists in another sovereign country.\"Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, responded: \"There are Russian volunteers in eastern parts of Ukraine. No one is hiding that.\"Moscow has said some Russians have, in their own time, gone to Ukraine to support the cause of the separatists.He urged the US to \"stop interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states.\"The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has yet to respond directly to Obama's accusations. But he called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a humanitarian corridor to allow besieged Ukrainian troops to retreat.\"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations,\" Putin said in a statement.Encircled Ukrainian fighters have been engaged in a fight for survival in the town of Ilovaysk for more than a week as pro-Russian rebels, who had been on the retreat, staged a swift counter-offensive.Putin addressed the separatists directly as defenders of \"Novorossiya\", or New Russia.Putin called on Kiev to \"immediately halt military action, cease fire, sit down at the negotiating table and speak with representatives of the Donbass, and solve all of the problems which have built up exclusively by peaceful means\".The Russian president called on the rebels to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers with medical help and said Russia was \"ready and will provide humanitarian aid to the people of the Donbass who are suffering from this humanitarian catastrophe\".Last week Russia sent into eastern Ukraine a convoy of more than 200 lorries, which it said was carrying more than 1,800 tonnes of aid, without the permission of Kiev and without Red Cross monitors.The unilateral move was condemned by Kiev and the west, who were concerned an inadvertent attack on the official convoy might serve as a pretext for Russia to send in troops.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Ukraine", "US politics"], "title": "Obama ramps up Russia rhetoric"},{"date": "2014-08-05T16:56:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have banned a Siberian independence march and threatened to block the BBC Russian service over its coverage of separatist protests.In sharp contrast to the treatment of separatists in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, Moscow has made it clear that it does not welcome similar aspirations at home.The media watchdog may block the website of the BBC Russian service over an interview with Artyom Loskutov, an organiser of the March for Siberian Federalisation, the newspaper Izvestiya reported on Tuesday. The march was due to take place on 17 August in Novosibirsk, Siberia's largest city.The federal communications monitoring service has sent a letter demanding the interview be deleted for violating a recently passed law against \"calls to mass unrest, extremist activities or participation in illegal public events\".The BBC said it had no plans to remove the material in question and had requested an interview with Russian officials about the matter.Russia's prosecutor general has issued warnings to 14 media outlets covering the protest under the country's extremism law, and blocked an event page for the march on Russia's most popular social network. The editor of Slon.ru, which was forced by the prosecutor general to remove an interview with Loskutov, later argued in a Facebook post that the article had not been in violation of the extremism law because it did not name a specific time or place. It also noted that the activists had not yet been given permission for the march.The Novosibirsk mayor's office reportedly denied permission on Tuesday to hold the march \"in order to ensure the inviolability of the constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Russian Federation\".Loskutov, an artist who is known for organising an annual absurdist rally called Monstration, told the Guardian that the activists had re-applied for permission to hold a March for the Inviolability and Observation of the Principles of Federalism.Washington and Kiev have said Russia is providing arms, men and funding to the separatist rebels fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine, while cracking down on similar trends at home. Moscow passed a law in December to make spreading separatist views punishable by up to five years in jail.Loskutov said the Novosibirsk protest was meant to both ridicule the Kremlin's hypocrisy on self-determination in Ukraine and to raise the issue of Siberia's delayed development. Most of Russia's oil and gas output comes from western Siberia, but the region lags behind Moscow, St Petersburg and some southern areas in quality of life ratings.\"It's using the rhetoric that our government and their propaganda use,\" Loskutov said. \"They decided to tell us how great it is when some republic moves for self-determination. Okay, well let's apply this to other regions. Can Siberia allow itself this same rhetoric? It turns out it can't.\"Olesya Gerasimenko, a correspondent for the Kommersantnewspaper, said most Russians in the regions would not support secession, but would back greater economic autonomy, including measures forcing resource extraction companies to pay taxes in the regions where they operate rather than in Moscow.\"If we support the Ukrainian people's right to federalisation, why don't we support the Russian people's right to federalisation?\" Gerasimenko asked. \"The mood of the separatists in Russia is socio-economic in nature, not for the autonomy of a certain region, so this is all exaggerated. But in light of recent events in Ukraine, it seems more dangerous.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Russia bans Siberia independence march"},{"date": "2014-07-31T18:08:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A law that comes into effect in Russia on Friday will place tighter controls on the blogosphere, one of the few remaining places where people can freely criticise the government.The federal mass media watchdog has said the law is meant to \"de-anonymise popular websites\". Prominent bloggers argue it is yet another step to crack down on free expression and will be wielded against critics of the regime.Popularly known as the \"law on bloggers,\" the legislation requires users of any website whose posts are read by more than 3,000 people each day to publish under their real name and register with the authorities if requested. It also holds popular bloggers to the same standards as the mass media, forbidding false information and foul language, although it doesn't guarantee them the same rights. Violators could incur fines of up to 50,000 rubles (\u00a3800) and be blacklisted.Facebook, Twitter, LiveJournal and other social media sites regulated under the new law played an instrumental role in organising the protests against president Vladimir Putin in 2011-13 and have provided a vital platform for critical voices, since most nationwide television and print media is controlled by the government.Already, the authorities enjoy sweeping powers under a 2013 law to close down websites for advocating \"extremist activities\" or \"participation in public events held in breach of appropriate procedures.\" In March, the media watchdog blocked three opposition news portals and the LiveJournal blog of opposition leader and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny, who specialises in expos\u00e9s on the luxurious real estate owned by prominent officials, replete with documents and photographs.Popular blogger and media entrepreneur Anton Nosik called the law on bloggers unconstitutional and said it was meant to intimidate regime critics.\"It's about creating a situation where big brother is watching you,\" said Nosik. \"You are part of a list, you are being watched, being observed, you are being served notices and could even serve a criminal sentence if you choose to speak out.\"Another prominent blogger, Leonid Kaganov, told the magazine Afisha that the legislation was yet another attempt to transfer regulating power from the judicial system to unknown officials and \"bring the authorities' relationship with its citizens into a shadow realm.\"Bloggers have also complained that the law's terminology is too vague, and wondered how the media watchdog could possibly hope to regulate all site users and reliably count their readers. After parliament passed the law in April, LiveJournal stopped listing the exact number of followers for bloggers with more than 2,500.The deputy head of the media watchdog, Maxim Ksenzov, recently suggested that the legislation would be applied selectively, telling the news site Lenta.ru that: \"If you post kitten pics, speak in a civilized manner and publish no classified information, you may never be required [to register], even if you have a daily audience of 1 million visitors.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Blogging", "Digital media", "Media"], "title": "Russia tightens controls on blogosphere"},{"date": "2014-07-19T23:06:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Social media A posting on an account linked to a pro-Russia separatist leader in Ukraine, on a Russian social network site, claims that militants shot down at least one Ukrainian military plane near the Donetsk region town of Torez. The post has been deleted.Photographs Ukrainian government adviser Anton Herashchenko claims the plane was hit by a missile fired by a Buk SA-11 launcher, a Russian-made, surface-to-air missile system. Photographs of such a launcher in the town of Snezhne, near the crash site, appear on the internet. Later, photographs of a Buk being moved on a transporter from Ukraine to Russia appear.The intercepts Ukrainian authorities release a recording they claim is a conversation between pro-Russia militants admitting to shooting down the plane. A rebel fighter going by the nom de guerre of \"Major\" is heard telling another comrade called \"Grek\" that a group of fighters had brought the airliner down. \"The plane broke up in the air, near the Petropavlovskaya mines. The first [casualty] has been found. It was a woman. A civilian,\" he says. At 5.42pm, \"Major\" acknowledges the plane was civilian: \"Hell. It's almost 100% certain that it's a civilian plane.\"In another recording, a Russian officer called Igor Bezler is apparently heard reporting on the downing of the jet to his superior in Russian military intelligence, Colonel Vasily Geranin: \"A plane has just been shot down ... They've gone to search and photograph the plane. It is smoking.\"In a third conversation, a rebel fighter says: \"It turned out to be a passenger plane. It fell in Hrabove area. There's a sea of women and children ...\"Satellite detection Satellite images show a plume of smoke left by a ground-to-air missile. The images help to compile an intelligence analysis shared with the UN security council by US ambassador Samantha Power, which she claimed showed the airliner was \"likely downed by a surface-to-air missile, an SA-11, operated from a separatist-held location in eastern Ukraine\". The location of the missile launch appears crucial.\"It strains credulity to think [the missile] could be used by separatists without at least some measure of Russian support and technical assistance,\" said Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby.", "tags": ["Malaysia Airlines flight MH17", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "United Nations", "Internet"], "title": "MH17: the evidence against Russia"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-08-29T09:10:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has accused Russia of sending troops into Ukraine and being responsible for a surge in violence in the country.Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the US president said Russia was encouraging, training, arming and funding separatists in the region and warned Moscow that it faced further isolation.He said: \"Russia has deliberately and repeatedly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the new images of Russian forces inside Ukraine make that plain for the world to see. This comes as Ukrainian forces are making progress against the separatists.\"Obama again ruled out US military action, but claimed Russia's increasing involvement in Ukraine \"will only bring more costs and consequences for Russia\", threatening a further tightening of sanctions.Obama said: \"As a result of the actions Russia has already taken, and the major sanctions we've imposed with our European and international partners, Russia is already more isolated that at any time since the end of the cold war. Capital is fleeing. Investors are increasingly staying out. Its economy is in decline.\"He added that he would reaffirm the US's \"unwavering commitment to \u2026 Ukraine and its people\" when President Petro Poroshenko visited the White House in September.\"We are not taking military action to solve the Ukrainian problem. What we're doing is to mobilise the international community to apply pressure on Russia,\" he told reporters.Obama's comments come after photographs showed Russian soldiers in uniform and Russian weapons in action in a renewed offensive against Ukrainian troops.At an emergency meeting of the UN security council Britain's ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, accused Russia of deploying more than 1,000 troops.\"Formed units of the armed forces of the Russian Federation are now directly engaged in fighting inside Ukraine against the armed forces of Ukraine. These units consist of well over 1,000 regular Russian troops equipped with armoured vehicles, artillery and air defence systems,\" he said.A state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, amplified Obama's comments with details of Russia's involvement in Ukraine.\"Russia has ... stepped up its presence in eastern Ukraine and intervened directly with combat forces, armoured vehicles, artillery, and surface-to-air systems, and is actively fighting Ukrainian forces as well as playing a direct supporting role to the separatists' proxies and mercenaries,\" she told a media briefing.US ambassador Samantha Power accused Russia of lying about its involvement in Ukraine. \"It has manipulated. It has obfuscated. It has outright lied,\" she said.\"The mask is coming off. In these acts, these recent acts, we see Russia's actions for what they are: a deliberate effort to support, and now fight alongside, illegal separatists in another sovereign country.\"Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, responded: \"There are Russian volunteers in eastern parts of Ukraine. No one is hiding that.\"Moscow has said some Russians have, in their own time, gone to Ukraine to support the cause of the separatists.He urged the US to \"stop interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states.\"The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has yet to respond directly to Obama's accusations. But he called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a humanitarian corridor to allow besieged Ukrainian troops to retreat.\"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations,\" Putin said in a statement.Encircled Ukrainian fighters have been engaged in a fight for survival in the town of Ilovaysk for more than a week as pro-Russian rebels, who had been on the retreat, staged a swift counter-offensive.Putin addressed the separatists directly as defenders of \"Novorossiya\", or New Russia.Putin called on Kiev to \"immediately halt military action, cease fire, sit down at the negotiating table and speak with representatives of the Donbass, and solve all of the problems which have built up exclusively by peaceful means\".The Russian president called on the rebels to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers with medical help and said Russia was \"ready and will provide humanitarian aid to the people of the Donbass who are suffering from this humanitarian catastrophe\".Last week Russia sent into eastern Ukraine a convoy of more than 200 lorries, which it said was carrying more than 1,800 tonnes of aid, without the permission of Kiev and without Red Cross monitors.The unilateral move was condemned by Kiev and the west, who were concerned an inadvertent attack on the official convoy might serve as a pretext for Russia to send in troops.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Ukraine", "US politics"], "title": "Obama ramps up Russia rhetoric"},{"date": "2014-08-05T16:56:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have banned a Siberian independence march and threatened to block the BBC Russian service over its coverage of separatist protests.In sharp contrast to the treatment of separatists in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, Moscow has made it clear that it does not welcome similar aspirations at home.The media watchdog may block the website of the BBC Russian service over an interview with Artyom Loskutov, an organiser of the March for Siberian Federalisation, the newspaper Izvestiya reported on Tuesday. The march was due to take place on 17 August in Novosibirsk, Siberia's largest city.The federal communications monitoring service has sent a letter demanding the interview be deleted for violating a recently passed law against \"calls to mass unrest, extremist activities or participation in illegal public events\".The BBC said it had no plans to remove the material in question and had requested an interview with Russian officials about the matter.Russia's prosecutor general has issued warnings to 14 media outlets covering the protest under the country's extremism law, and blocked an event page for the march on Russia's most popular social network. The editor of Slon.ru, which was forced by the prosecutor general to remove an interview with Loskutov, later argued in a Facebook post that the article had not been in violation of the extremism law because it did not name a specific time or place. It also noted that the activists had not yet been given permission for the march.The Novosibirsk mayor's office reportedly denied permission on Tuesday to hold the march \"in order to ensure the inviolability of the constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Russian Federation\".Loskutov, an artist who is known for organising an annual absurdist rally called Monstration, told the Guardian that the activists had re-applied for permission to hold a March for the Inviolability and Observation of the Principles of Federalism.Washington and Kiev have said Russia is providing arms, men and funding to the separatist rebels fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine, while cracking down on similar trends at home. Moscow passed a law in December to make spreading separatist views punishable by up to five years in jail.Loskutov said the Novosibirsk protest was meant to both ridicule the Kremlin's hypocrisy on self-determination in Ukraine and to raise the issue of Siberia's delayed development. Most of Russia's oil and gas output comes from western Siberia, but the region lags behind Moscow, St Petersburg and some southern areas in quality of life ratings.\"It's using the rhetoric that our government and their propaganda use,\" Loskutov said. \"They decided to tell us how great it is when some republic moves for self-determination. Okay, well let's apply this to other regions. Can Siberia allow itself this same rhetoric? It turns out it can't.\"Olesya Gerasimenko, a correspondent for the Kommersantnewspaper, said most Russians in the regions would not support secession, but would back greater economic autonomy, including measures forcing resource extraction companies to pay taxes in the regions where they operate rather than in Moscow.\"If we support the Ukrainian people's right to federalisation, why don't we support the Russian people's right to federalisation?\" Gerasimenko asked. \"The mood of the separatists in Russia is socio-economic in nature, not for the autonomy of a certain region, so this is all exaggerated. But in light of recent events in Ukraine, it seems more dangerous.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Russia bans Siberia independence march"},{"date": "2014-07-31T18:08:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A law that comes into effect in Russia on Friday will place tighter controls on the blogosphere, one of the few remaining places where people can freely criticise the government.The federal mass media watchdog has said the law is meant to \"de-anonymise popular websites\". Prominent bloggers argue it is yet another step to crack down on free expression and will be wielded against critics of the regime.Popularly known as the \"law on bloggers,\" the legislation requires users of any website whose posts are read by more than 3,000 people each day to publish under their real name and register with the authorities if requested. It also holds popular bloggers to the same standards as the mass media, forbidding false information and foul language, although it doesn't guarantee them the same rights. Violators could incur fines of up to 50,000 rubles (\u00a3800) and be blacklisted.Facebook, Twitter, LiveJournal and other social media sites regulated under the new law played an instrumental role in organising the protests against president Vladimir Putin in 2011-13 and have provided a vital platform for critical voices, since most nationwide television and print media is controlled by the government.Already, the authorities enjoy sweeping powers under a 2013 law to close down websites for advocating \"extremist activities\" or \"participation in public events held in breach of appropriate procedures.\" In March, the media watchdog blocked three opposition news portals and the LiveJournal blog of opposition leader and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny, who specialises in expos\u00e9s on the luxurious real estate owned by prominent officials, replete with documents and photographs.Popular blogger and media entrepreneur Anton Nosik called the law on bloggers unconstitutional and said it was meant to intimidate regime critics.\"It's about creating a situation where big brother is watching you,\" said Nosik. \"You are part of a list, you are being watched, being observed, you are being served notices and could even serve a criminal sentence if you choose to speak out.\"Another prominent blogger, Leonid Kaganov, told the magazine Afisha that the legislation was yet another attempt to transfer regulating power from the judicial system to unknown officials and \"bring the authorities' relationship with its citizens into a shadow realm.\"Bloggers have also complained that the law's terminology is too vague, and wondered how the media watchdog could possibly hope to regulate all site users and reliably count their readers. After parliament passed the law in April, LiveJournal stopped listing the exact number of followers for bloggers with more than 2,500.The deputy head of the media watchdog, Maxim Ksenzov, recently suggested that the legislation would be applied selectively, telling the news site Lenta.ru that: \"If you post kitten pics, speak in a civilized manner and publish no classified information, you may never be required [to register], even if you have a daily audience of 1 million visitors.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Blogging", "Digital media", "Media"], "title": "Russia tightens controls on blogosphere"},{"date": "2014-07-19T23:06:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Social media A posting on an account linked to a pro-Russia separatist leader in Ukraine, on a Russian social network site, claims that militants shot down at least one Ukrainian military plane near the Donetsk region town of Torez. The post has been deleted.Photographs Ukrainian government adviser Anton Herashchenko claims the plane was hit by a missile fired by a Buk SA-11 launcher, a Russian-made, surface-to-air missile system. Photographs of such a launcher in the town of Snezhne, near the crash site, appear on the internet. Later, photographs of a Buk being moved on a transporter from Ukraine to Russia appear.The intercepts Ukrainian authorities release a recording they claim is a conversation between pro-Russia militants admitting to shooting down the plane. A rebel fighter going by the nom de guerre of \"Major\" is heard telling another comrade called \"Grek\" that a group of fighters had brought the airliner down. \"The plane broke up in the air, near the Petropavlovskaya mines. The first [casualty] has been found. It was a woman. A civilian,\" he says. At 5.42pm, \"Major\" acknowledges the plane was civilian: \"Hell. It's almost 100% certain that it's a civilian plane.\"In another recording, a Russian officer called Igor Bezler is apparently heard reporting on the downing of the jet to his superior in Russian military intelligence, Colonel Vasily Geranin: \"A plane has just been shot down ... They've gone to search and photograph the plane. It is smoking.\"In a third conversation, a rebel fighter says: \"It turned out to be a passenger plane. It fell in Hrabove area. There's a sea of women and children ...\"Satellite detection Satellite images show a plume of smoke left by a ground-to-air missile. The images help to compile an intelligence analysis shared with the UN security council by US ambassador Samantha Power, which she claimed showed the airliner was \"likely downed by a surface-to-air missile, an SA-11, operated from a separatist-held location in eastern Ukraine\". The location of the missile launch appears crucial.\"It strains credulity to think [the missile] could be used by separatists without at least some measure of Russian support and technical assistance,\" said Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby.", "tags": ["Malaysia Airlines flight MH17", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "United Nations", "Internet"], "title": "MH17: the evidence against Russia"},{"date": "2014-09-19T12:12:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has said the conduct of the Scottish referendum \"did not meet international standards\", with its observers complaining the count took place in rooms that were too big and that the procedure was badly flawed.In an apparent attempt to mirror persistent western criticism of Russia's own elections, Igor Borisov \u2013 an accredited observer \u2013 said the poll failed to meet basic international norms.Borisov and three other Russians arrived in Edinburgh on Wednesday evening, the state news agency Ria Novosti reported. The team from Moscow's Public Institute of Suffrage watched voting take place in the Scottish capital and the surrounding area. It also met with Scottish politicians, voters and representatives from non-governmental organisations, Ria said.Borisov said he was unimpressed by what he saw. He said the room where he watched the count on Thursday night was a cavernous \"aircraft hangar\" next to an airfield. It was difficult to see what was going on, he said, adding: \"The hangar is approximately 100m by 300m. There are tables, with voting papers stacked upon them, but the observers are stuck around the perimeter. Even if you want to, it's impossible to tell what's happening. It's also unclear where the boxes with ballot papers come from.\"Borisov said the US state department, the UK and other western countries loudly hectored the Kremlin about Russia's supposed democratic deficiencies. But in this instance, he said, London and Edinburgh had not \"fully met\" the requirements of a proper referendum.\"Nobody was interested in who was bringing in the voting slips. There were no stamps or signatures as the bulletins were handed over,\" he said.Supporters of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, had been fervently hoping for a yes vote. Some Russian nationalists had even fixed yes badges to their Twitter profiles, with one \u2013Konstantin Rykov \u2013 adding a \"Mc\" to the front of his Cyrillic surname. (The badge and \"Mc\" had disappeared by Friday morning). The Kremlin apparently saw Scottish independence as a way of justifying its own hasty annexation of Crimea in March, following a \"referendum\" conducted in just three weeks and condemned by the west, as armed Russian forces and irregulars swarmed over the Crimean peninsula. Moscow also felt that a yes vote would weaken the UK and bring to power a post-independence Scottish government more amenable to Moscow's wishes. Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, expressed qualified admiration for President Putin in an interview with GQ in March.The Kremlin propaganda channel RT, meanwhile, speculated that the result might have been rigged and expressed surprise at the \"North Korean\" levels of turnout.Afshin Rattansi, the presenter of RT's Going Underground show, said there were \"international considerations\", such as the UK's nuclear deterrent, which had affected the outcome. He said: \"With the vote as close as this, with the mainstream media on one side, with a massive amount of people from Westminster running up to beg Scotland the other way, and certain recounts in certain bits of the poll, which way did the vote go, really?\"He added: \"It is normally the sort of turnout you would expect in North Korea. Usually media here would go 'we don't believe it. How can it be nearly 90%?'\"On Friday the Donetsk People's Republic - the Ukrainian rebel enclave - said that it, too, believed the Scottish referendum had been falsified. Miroslav Rudenko, a member of the republic's self-declared supreme council, said he suspected the UK government was guilty of foul play. \"I don't rule out that the British authorities have falsified the results of this referendum. The difference between those who voted in favour of independence and against it is not so great,\" he told the Russian news agency Interfax.Rudenko said the west was guilty of \"double-standards\". It had allowed a referendum in Scotland but refused one for Donestk and Luhansk, the rebel enclaves where separatists backed by Kremlin firepower are fighting Ukrainian troops..", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia cries foul over Scottish independence vote"},{"date": "2014-09-18T04:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "While Russia\u2019s relationship with Ukraine has been grabbing the headlines, Moscow has been steadily strengthening its foothold in another of the post-Soviet states \u2013 Kyrgyzstan. In the past few years Russia has written off half a billion dollars of the impoverished Central Asian country\u2019s debt, pledged to supply the government with weapons and military equipment and taken over its gas network.The state-run oil giants Rosneft and Gazprom, the subject of new EU sanctions announced last week, have both invested heavily in new energy projects in Kyrgyzstan over recent years.Significantly, Russian influence resulted in the recent closure of the massive US air base Manas outside the capital Bishkek, marking the end of American military presence in the region.\u201cIn essence, the closing of Manas marks Kyrgyzstan\u2019s new era as a Russian client state,\u201d said Central Asia specialist Alexander Cooley, professor of political science at Barnard College at Columbia University.Manas was built in 2001 after the 9/11 attacks and served as a base for more than 5.3 million Nato troops serving in Afghanistan. It officially closed in July 2014.\u201cThe Kyrgyz side faced significant pressure from Moscow to close the facility,\u201d Cooley said. Acting under a mix of pressure and economic incentives from Russia, the Kyrgyz government first tried to evict the US from Manas in 2009. The Americans agreed to raise the annual rent from $17.4m to $60m, and the base was allowed stay. But Russia grew increasingly wary of foreign military presence in the region, and upped the ante. \u201cThis time Moscow has effectively used a number of instruments of influence to assert itself as Kyrgyzstan\u2019s primary foreign policy and security partner,\u201d Cooley said.In August, Russia pledged $500m in financial assistance to Kyrgyzstan to speed up Kyrgyzstan\u2019s integration into the Moscow-led Eurasian Economic Union, an economic bloc that currently includes Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia\u2019s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the funds will ensure \u201cmaximum comfort\u201d for Bishkek, but did not disclose details what the money will be spent on. Kyrgyz President Almazbek Atambayev said his country would join the Eurasian Economic Union by the end of the year.Now that the foreign military presence is gone from Kyrgyzstan, \u201cRussia will now assert itself as the country\u2019s exclusive security patron,\u201d Cooley said.In 2012 Russia agreed to write off almost $500m of Kyrgyz debt in exchange for a 15-year extension of the lease for a Russian military air base.Moscow operates four military installations in Kyrgyzstan, including the Kant Air Base near Bishkek where 600 Russian servicemen and a number of warplanes are based, and a naval test site at Lake Issyk Kul in the Tien Shan mountains.Russia also pledged to supply weapons and other military equipment worth $1.1bn to Kyrgyzstan as part of a bilateral armed forces assistance programme, according to the Russian news agency RIA Novosti.Experts say that with these measures Putin is trying to restore influence in the region that Russia lost when the Soviet Union disintegrated.According to Alexei Malashenko, a Central Asia scholar and chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center, Russia exerts a lot of power over Kyrgyzstan. \u201cTo my mind, Kyrgyzstan is more controlled by Moscow than other Central Asian states,\u201d he said. Kyrgyzstan\u2019s current president Almazbeck Atambaev \u201csees no alternative to Russian economic and political presence,\u201d he added.Kyrgyzstan\u2019s gas infrastructure was put entirely under Russian control this year. Russia\u2019s Gazprom paid a symbolic $1 to take over the Kyrgyzgaz natural gas network in July, and vowed to invest 20bn roubles ($521m) to upgrade its infrastructure in the first five years. With this deal, the Russian gas giant also assumed Kyrgyzgaz\u2019s debts of around $40m.This month Bishkek announced that Gazprom would start exploration of gas fields in Kyrgyzstan by late September. Other recent deals include RusHydro, a Russian state-owned energy company, which began construction on a series of hydroelectric dams in Kyrgyzstan. Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, also signed a deal in February this year to invest up to $1bn for a stake of at least 51% in Manas International Airport.Last week the EU announced new sanctions against Russia over the Ukraine crisis, including restrictions on the Rosneft and Gazprom, which will now be prevented from raising capital on EU markets.Kyrgyzstan has many ethnic and cultural similarities with Russia. Almost one million Kyrgyz people are said to work abroad, most of them in Russia. Their remittances, according to the World Bank, make up 30% of Kyrgyzstan\u2019s GDP.Kyrgyzstan is the only multi-party parliamentary democracy in Central Asia, but the political system is under pressure. Two presidents have been deposed by violent revolts since 2005.Mirsuljan Namazaaly, a political economist in Bishkek and the co-founder of the Central Asian Free Market Institute, said: \u201cI wouldn\u2019t say that Kyrgyzstan is politically independent from Russia, as many laws are just copying the laws from Russia, presidents and members of parliament always look at Russia and do what Russia can approve.\u201d However he stressed that Kyrgyz people are generally not opposed to Russia\u2019s influence, and that most favour the Russian presence and support in their country.", "tags": ["Kyrgyzstan", "Russia", "US news", "Gazprom", "Asia Pacific", "European Union", "Ukraine", "Energy industry", "Gas", "US military", "Commodities", "Europe"], "title": "Russia tightens control over Kyrgyzstan"},{"date": "2014-09-12T08:04:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Some of Russia's best-known companies, including arms-maker Kalashnikov and energy firms Rosneft and Gazprom, have been targeted in the latest round of EU sanctions over the Ukraine crisis.Under the sanctions, published on Friday in the EU's official journal, Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft will be prevented from raising long-term debt on European capital markets.There are also travel bans and asset freezes against leading members of Vladimir Putin's inner circle, including the businessman Sergei Chemezov, chairman of defence and industrial group Rostec and a close associate of Putin from his KGB days in East Germany.Others targeted are Igor Lebedev, deputy speaker of the Russian lower house of parliament, and Vladimir Zhirinovsky, an outspoken nationalist politician, as well as a number of leaders of pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine.The US is understood to be planning to limit access to Russian banks, including Sberbank, later on Friday as part of a concerted western effort to penalise what it sees as Russian attempts to destablise Ukraine by backing pro-Russia separatists with troops and weapons.Last week, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a ceasefire that remains in place despite repeated violations. As part of the agreement, on Friday the Ukrainian government and rebel forces exchanged dozens of prisoners captured during fighting.The transfer took place in early hours outside the main rebel stronghold of Donetsk under the watch of international observers. Ukraine's president, Petro Poroshenko, said 36 Ukrainian servicemen were released after negotiations. He said a further 21 soldiers were freed the day before. Ukrainian forces handed over 31 pro-Russia rebels detained over the course of the five-month conflict.Shortly after the prisoner exchange, a volley of rocket fire was heard from central Donetsk. Hundreds of prisoners are believed to be held by both sides, although no firm figure has been provided by either.The latest sanctions are designed to keep up pressure on Russia, which denies sending troops into eastern Ukraine and arming the separatists.In July, the US effectively cut off five Russian financial groups \u2013 VTB Bank, Gazprombank, Bank of Moscow VEB and Russian Agriculture Bank \u2013 from US equity and debt markets.Sources told Reuters that Washington planned to apply the same sanction to Sberbank, Russia's largest bank by assets, and to tighten the restriction for all six financial institutions.The White House said the sanctions would be unveiled on Friday. They are also expected to include targeting Russian defence companies and arms manufacturers.Barack Obama hailed the additional EU sanctions but stressed that the US remained open to a diplomatic solution over Ukraine.\"We are implementing these new measures in light of Russia's actions to further destabilise Ukraine over the last month, including through the presence of heavily armed Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,\" Obama said. \"If Russia fully implements its commitments, these sanctions can be rolled back. If, instead, Russia continues its aggressive actions and violations of international law, the costs will continue to rise.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Ukraine", "European Union", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "EU imposes further Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2014-08-29T09:10:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has accused Russia of sending troops into Ukraine and being responsible for a surge in violence in the country.Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the US president said Russia was encouraging, training, arming and funding separatists in the region and warned Moscow that it faced further isolation.He said: \"Russia has deliberately and repeatedly violated the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and the new images of Russian forces inside Ukraine make that plain for the world to see. This comes as Ukrainian forces are making progress against the separatists.\"Obama again ruled out US military action, but claimed Russia's increasing involvement in Ukraine \"will only bring more costs and consequences for Russia\", threatening a further tightening of sanctions.Obama said: \"As a result of the actions Russia has already taken, and the major sanctions we've imposed with our European and international partners, Russia is already more isolated that at any time since the end of the cold war. Capital is fleeing. Investors are increasingly staying out. Its economy is in decline.\"He added that he would reaffirm the US's \"unwavering commitment to \u2026 Ukraine and its people\" when President Petro Poroshenko visited the White House in September.\"We are not taking military action to solve the Ukrainian problem. What we're doing is to mobilise the international community to apply pressure on Russia,\" he told reporters.Obama's comments come after photographs showed Russian soldiers in uniform and Russian weapons in action in a renewed offensive against Ukrainian troops.At an emergency meeting of the UN security council Britain's ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, accused Russia of deploying more than 1,000 troops.\"Formed units of the armed forces of the Russian Federation are now directly engaged in fighting inside Ukraine against the armed forces of Ukraine. These units consist of well over 1,000 regular Russian troops equipped with armoured vehicles, artillery and air defence systems,\" he said.A state department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, amplified Obama's comments with details of Russia's involvement in Ukraine.\"Russia has ... stepped up its presence in eastern Ukraine and intervened directly with combat forces, armoured vehicles, artillery, and surface-to-air systems, and is actively fighting Ukrainian forces as well as playing a direct supporting role to the separatists' proxies and mercenaries,\" she told a media briefing.US ambassador Samantha Power accused Russia of lying about its involvement in Ukraine. \"It has manipulated. It has obfuscated. It has outright lied,\" she said.\"The mask is coming off. In these acts, these recent acts, we see Russia's actions for what they are: a deliberate effort to support, and now fight alongside, illegal separatists in another sovereign country.\"Russia's UN ambassador, Vitaly Churkin, responded: \"There are Russian volunteers in eastern parts of Ukraine. No one is hiding that.\"Moscow has said some Russians have, in their own time, gone to Ukraine to support the cause of the separatists.He urged the US to \"stop interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states.\"The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, has yet to respond directly to Obama's accusations. But he called on pro-Moscow separatists in Ukraine to open a humanitarian corridor to allow besieged Ukrainian troops to retreat.\"I call on the rebel forces to open a humanitarian corridor for the Ukrainian troops who are surrounded, so as to avoid unnecessary casualties and to give them the opportunity to withdraw from the zone of operations,\" Putin said in a statement.Encircled Ukrainian fighters have been engaged in a fight for survival in the town of Ilovaysk for more than a week as pro-Russian rebels, who had been on the retreat, staged a swift counter-offensive.Putin addressed the separatists directly as defenders of \"Novorossiya\", or New Russia.Putin called on Kiev to \"immediately halt military action, cease fire, sit down at the negotiating table and speak with representatives of the Donbass, and solve all of the problems which have built up exclusively by peaceful means\".The Russian president called on the rebels to provide wounded Ukrainian soldiers with medical help and said Russia was \"ready and will provide humanitarian aid to the people of the Donbass who are suffering from this humanitarian catastrophe\".Last week Russia sent into eastern Ukraine a convoy of more than 200 lorries, which it said was carrying more than 1,800 tonnes of aid, without the permission of Kiev and without Red Cross monitors.The unilateral move was condemned by Kiev and the west, who were concerned an inadvertent attack on the official convoy might serve as a pretext for Russia to send in troops.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Ukraine", "US politics"], "title": "Obama ramps up Russia rhetoric"},{"date": "2014-08-05T16:56:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have banned a Siberian independence march and threatened to block the BBC Russian service over its coverage of separatist protests.In sharp contrast to the treatment of separatists in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, Moscow has made it clear that it does not welcome similar aspirations at home.The media watchdog may block the website of the BBC Russian service over an interview with Artyom Loskutov, an organiser of the March for Siberian Federalisation, the newspaper Izvestiya reported on Tuesday. The march was due to take place on 17 August in Novosibirsk, Siberia's largest city.The federal communications monitoring service has sent a letter demanding the interview be deleted for violating a recently passed law against \"calls to mass unrest, extremist activities or participation in illegal public events\".The BBC said it had no plans to remove the material in question and had requested an interview with Russian officials about the matter.Russia's prosecutor general has issued warnings to 14 media outlets covering the protest under the country's extremism law, and blocked an event page for the march on Russia's most popular social network. The editor of Slon.ru, which was forced by the prosecutor general to remove an interview with Loskutov, later argued in a Facebook post that the article had not been in violation of the extremism law because it did not name a specific time or place. It also noted that the activists had not yet been given permission for the march.The Novosibirsk mayor's office reportedly denied permission on Tuesday to hold the march \"in order to ensure the inviolability of the constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Russian Federation\".Loskutov, an artist who is known for organising an annual absurdist rally called Monstration, told the Guardian that the activists had re-applied for permission to hold a March for the Inviolability and Observation of the Principles of Federalism.Washington and Kiev have said Russia is providing arms, men and funding to the separatist rebels fighting government forces in eastern Ukraine, while cracking down on similar trends at home. Moscow passed a law in December to make spreading separatist views punishable by up to five years in jail.Loskutov said the Novosibirsk protest was meant to both ridicule the Kremlin's hypocrisy on self-determination in Ukraine and to raise the issue of Siberia's delayed development. Most of Russia's oil and gas output comes from western Siberia, but the region lags behind Moscow, St Petersburg and some southern areas in quality of life ratings.\"It's using the rhetoric that our government and their propaganda use,\" Loskutov said. \"They decided to tell us how great it is when some republic moves for self-determination. Okay, well let's apply this to other regions. Can Siberia allow itself this same rhetoric? It turns out it can't.\"Olesya Gerasimenko, a correspondent for the Kommersantnewspaper, said most Russians in the regions would not support secession, but would back greater economic autonomy, including measures forcing resource extraction companies to pay taxes in the regions where they operate rather than in Moscow.\"If we support the Ukrainian people's right to federalisation, why don't we support the Russian people's right to federalisation?\" Gerasimenko asked. \"The mood of the separatists in Russia is socio-economic in nature, not for the autonomy of a certain region, so this is all exaggerated. But in light of recent events in Ukraine, it seems more dangerous.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Russia bans Siberia independence march"},{"date": "2014-07-31T18:08:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A law that comes into effect in Russia on Friday will place tighter controls on the blogosphere, one of the few remaining places where people can freely criticise the government.The federal mass media watchdog has said the law is meant to \"de-anonymise popular websites\". Prominent bloggers argue it is yet another step to crack down on free expression and will be wielded against critics of the regime.Popularly known as the \"law on bloggers,\" the legislation requires users of any website whose posts are read by more than 3,000 people each day to publish under their real name and register with the authorities if requested. It also holds popular bloggers to the same standards as the mass media, forbidding false information and foul language, although it doesn't guarantee them the same rights. Violators could incur fines of up to 50,000 rubles (\u00a3800) and be blacklisted.Facebook, Twitter, LiveJournal and other social media sites regulated under the new law played an instrumental role in organising the protests against president Vladimir Putin in 2011-13 and have provided a vital platform for critical voices, since most nationwide television and print media is controlled by the government.Already, the authorities enjoy sweeping powers under a 2013 law to close down websites for advocating \"extremist activities\" or \"participation in public events held in breach of appropriate procedures.\" In March, the media watchdog blocked three opposition news portals and the LiveJournal blog of opposition leader and anti-corruption activist Alexei Navalny, who specialises in expos\u00e9s on the luxurious real estate owned by prominent officials, replete with documents and photographs.Popular blogger and media entrepreneur Anton Nosik called the law on bloggers unconstitutional and said it was meant to intimidate regime critics.\"It's about creating a situation where big brother is watching you,\" said Nosik. \"You are part of a list, you are being watched, being observed, you are being served notices and could even serve a criminal sentence if you choose to speak out.\"Another prominent blogger, Leonid Kaganov, told the magazine Afisha that the legislation was yet another attempt to transfer regulating power from the judicial system to unknown officials and \"bring the authorities' relationship with its citizens into a shadow realm.\"Bloggers have also complained that the law's terminology is too vague, and wondered how the media watchdog could possibly hope to regulate all site users and reliably count their readers. After parliament passed the law in April, LiveJournal stopped listing the exact number of followers for bloggers with more than 2,500.The deputy head of the media watchdog, Maxim Ksenzov, recently suggested that the legislation would be applied selectively, telling the news site Lenta.ru that: \"If you post kitten pics, speak in a civilized manner and publish no classified information, you may never be required [to register], even if you have a daily audience of 1 million visitors.\"", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Blogging", "Digital media", "Media"], "title": "Russia tightens controls on blogosphere"},{"date": "2014-07-19T23:06:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Social media A posting on an account linked to a pro-Russia separatist leader in Ukraine, on a Russian social network site, claims that militants shot down at least one Ukrainian military plane near the Donetsk region town of Torez. The post has been deleted.Photographs Ukrainian government adviser Anton Herashchenko claims the plane was hit by a missile fired by a Buk SA-11 launcher, a Russian-made, surface-to-air missile system. Photographs of such a launcher in the town of Snezhne, near the crash site, appear on the internet. Later, photographs of a Buk being moved on a transporter from Ukraine to Russia appear.The intercepts Ukrainian authorities release a recording they claim is a conversation between pro-Russia militants admitting to shooting down the plane. A rebel fighter going by the nom de guerre of \"Major\" is heard telling another comrade called \"Grek\" that a group of fighters had brought the airliner down. \"The plane broke up in the air, near the Petropavlovskaya mines. The first [casualty] has been found. It was a woman. A civilian,\" he says. At 5.42pm, \"Major\" acknowledges the plane was civilian: \"Hell. It's almost 100% certain that it's a civilian plane.\"In another recording, a Russian officer called Igor Bezler is apparently heard reporting on the downing of the jet to his superior in Russian military intelligence, Colonel Vasily Geranin: \"A plane has just been shot down ... They've gone to search and photograph the plane. It is smoking.\"In a third conversation, a rebel fighter says: \"It turned out to be a passenger plane. It fell in Hrabove area. There's a sea of women and children ...\"Satellite detection Satellite images show a plume of smoke left by a ground-to-air missile. The images help to compile an intelligence analysis shared with the UN security council by US ambassador Samantha Power, which she claimed showed the airliner was \"likely downed by a surface-to-air missile, an SA-11, operated from a separatist-held location in eastern Ukraine\". The location of the missile launch appears crucial.\"It strains credulity to think [the missile] could be used by separatists without at least some measure of Russian support and technical assistance,\" said Pentagon spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby.", "tags": ["Malaysia Airlines flight MH17", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "United Nations", "Internet"], "title": "MH17: the evidence against Russia"},{"date": "2014-09-19T12:12:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has said the conduct of the Scottish referendum \"did not meet international standards\", with its observers complaining the count took place in rooms that were too big and that the procedure was badly flawed.In an apparent attempt to mirror persistent western criticism of Russia's own elections, Igor Borisov \u2013 an accredited observer \u2013 said the poll failed to meet basic international norms.Borisov and three other Russians arrived in Edinburgh on Wednesday evening, the state news agency Ria Novosti reported. The team from Moscow's Public Institute of Suffrage watched voting take place in the Scottish capital and the surrounding area. It also met with Scottish politicians, voters and representatives from non-governmental organisations, Ria said.Borisov said he was unimpressed by what he saw. He said the room where he watched the count on Thursday night was a cavernous \"aircraft hangar\" next to an airfield. It was difficult to see what was going on, he said, adding: \"The hangar is approximately 100m by 300m. There are tables, with voting papers stacked upon them, but the observers are stuck around the perimeter. Even if you want to, it's impossible to tell what's happening. It's also unclear where the boxes with ballot papers come from.\"Borisov said the US state department, the UK and other western countries loudly hectored the Kremlin about Russia's supposed democratic deficiencies. But in this instance, he said, London and Edinburgh had not \"fully met\" the requirements of a proper referendum.\"Nobody was interested in who was bringing in the voting slips. There were no stamps or signatures as the bulletins were handed over,\" he said.Supporters of the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, had been fervently hoping for a yes vote. Some Russian nationalists had even fixed yes badges to their Twitter profiles, with one \u2013Konstantin Rykov \u2013 adding a \"Mc\" to the front of his Cyrillic surname. (The badge and \"Mc\" had disappeared by Friday morning). The Kremlin apparently saw Scottish independence as a way of justifying its own hasty annexation of Crimea in March, following a \"referendum\" conducted in just three weeks and condemned by the west, as armed Russian forces and irregulars swarmed over the Crimean peninsula. Moscow also felt that a yes vote would weaken the UK and bring to power a post-independence Scottish government more amenable to Moscow's wishes. Alex Salmond, Scotland's first minister, expressed qualified admiration for President Putin in an interview with GQ in March.The Kremlin propaganda channel RT, meanwhile, speculated that the result might have been rigged and expressed surprise at the \"North Korean\" levels of turnout.Afshin Rattansi, the presenter of RT's Going Underground show, said there were \"international considerations\", such as the UK's nuclear deterrent, which had affected the outcome. He said: \"With the vote as close as this, with the mainstream media on one side, with a massive amount of people from Westminster running up to beg Scotland the other way, and certain recounts in certain bits of the poll, which way did the vote go, really?\"He added: \"It is normally the sort of turnout you would expect in North Korea. Usually media here would go 'we don't believe it. How can it be nearly 90%?'\"On Friday the Donetsk People's Republic - the Ukrainian rebel enclave - said that it, too, believed the Scottish referendum had been falsified. Miroslav Rudenko, a member of the republic's self-declared supreme council, said he suspected the UK government was guilty of foul play. \"I don't rule out that the British authorities have falsified the results of this referendum. The difference between those who voted in favour of independence and against it is not so great,\" he told the Russian news agency Interfax.Rudenko said the west was guilty of \"double-standards\". It had allowed a referendum in Scotland but refused one for Donestk and Luhansk, the rebel enclaves where separatists backed by Kremlin firepower are fighting Ukrainian troops..", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "UK news", "Scottish politics", "Scotland", "Politics", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia cries foul over Scottish independence vote"},{"date": "2014-09-03T06:55:09Z", "country": "russia", "content": "That Wesley Clark, a military man, argues in favour of military support for Ukraine against Russian \u201caggression\u201d is hardly surprising (Tell the truth about Russia, 1 September). What is no less surprising is that Clark has grasped so firmly at the wrong end of the stick. A better understanding of Russia would have taught Clark that the long history of that country is that it is not aggressive but defensive: after terrible sufferings during the second world war (to go back into the country\u2019s history no further), Stalin\u2019s primary aim in securing the communist regimes of eastern/central Europe was to establish a defensive buffer zone, not \u201caggression\u201d as cold warriors like Clark claimed.Similarly, when Putin (not at all a nice man, as anyone can see) provokes actions in eastern Ukraine, it is in a reaction to the ill-judged actions of the EU in pouring support into the government there. Viewed from the Kremlin (and we don\u2019t have to agree with this, but that\u2019s their view), EU actions since the Maidan revolution have suggested a rolling back of the accords under which Ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons in return for a studied neutrality, and not surprisingly the Kremlin sees that as a dire threat.It follows that the suggested actions of Wesley Clark in providing \u201ca stronger Nato response\u201d in beefing up its rapid reaction forces will only make a difficult situation far worse. Clark appeals for \u201ca deeper understanding of the situation\u201d but that is the very thing his column lacks. Hotheaded responses to such a highly nuanced situation are foolish: diplomacy without threats is rather wiser than wielding a big stick while claiming (falsely) that you\u2019re in favour of\u00a0a negotiated solution.Dr Richard CarterLondon\u2022\u2008As a strong and long-time supporter of the EU, I never thought I\u2019d contemplate the idea of our leaving it. However, the more that those member countries which were formerly part of the Soviet Union exert their influence over our collective approach to relations with Russia (Europe\u2019s balance of power finally shifts east, 1 September), the more I am beginning to see it might become a moral necessity.The EU and Nato have been encroaching into parts of Europe that historically have never been part of their sphere of influence or culture, and goading Russia for months, if not years, into a reaction \u2013 over Ukraine especially. They then turn on Russia as if surprised by its reaction. How can we preach democracy and self-determination when we have been bribing and enticing former Soviet countries into our fold, encouraging them to adopt overtly aggressive positions towards Russia ever since the end of the cold war? Instead of seizing the opportunity to build a new Europe of peace and cooperation, one which includes Russia, we are simply expanding and rebadging the old anti-Soviet bloc in order to oppose our traditional \u201cenemy\u201d. Perhaps the only honourable position is for the UK to have no part\u00a0in\u00a0this. Gillian DalleyLondon\u2022\u2008In September 2014, it is shameful and embarrassing to be European. Shameful because people who live in countries that are members of the European Union or closely associated with the EU live in fear. They fear that the Russian aggression continues and if it is directed in their way, they have no certainty that the EU will have the resolve to guarantee their safety.Embarrassing because our leaders manage to play an overwhelmingly strong hand so poorly. The EU is big, Russia is small. The EU is rich, Russia is poor. The EU (together with its allies) possesses the most advanced military capability in the world, Russia does not. Russia\u2019s economy is eight times smaller than that of the EU (and 16 times smaller than that of the EU and its allies). And still the EU leaders manage to position the EU as if it was responding from a position of weakness.Less than a decade ago, EU leaders sold the treaty of Lisbon to EU citizens on the premise that it would allow the EU to defend its interests and to project its values more effectively. Following the weekend\u2019s summit, now is the last chance for the EU to demonstrate that the leaders were not wilfully and cynically misleading the EU population. Only a principled and strong response will do.Real and effective economic sanctions will hurt the EU as well. But the EU is in an immeasurably stronger position to deal with them than is a fundamentally fragile and weak Russian economy. And mobilising the necessary military capability to halt and reverse the unlawful Russian incursion to the sovereign territory of an EU partner does carry a cost.But sometimes it is necessary to draw the line and be prepared to pay the cost of one\u2019s convictions. Now is such a time.Annika HedbergBrussels, Belgium\u2022\u2008In your editorial excoriating Vladimir Putin (Lies and deceit, 30 August) you neglect to mention one glaring fact. Namely that without the illegal coup in Kiev earlier this year, sponsored and funded by the US and applauded by the western media, there would have been no annexation of Crimea, no civil war in eastern Ukraine, no downing of planes, no incursions from Russia or anywhere else, no damaging sanctions, and no looming threat of a third world war. Putin may be a liar or not, but it\u2019s hard to see how he\u2019s responsible for any of this.Anthony KearneyLancaster\u2022\u2008To understand Russia we need to go a little further than speculation on internal politics (Inside Putinworld, where few risk speaking truth to power, 30 August). We need to understand what to be Russian means to Russians and why so many are still angry and heartbroken by what they see as the shameful betrayal of their motherland by the westernising and degrading years of Yeltsin.To understand these things better we might learn something of the language: its nuance, beauty of sound, complexity and vigour, only perhaps equalled by those of English in the hands of a Shakespeare. We should read, at least, Pushkin and Chekhov (in the originals if possible), Dostoevsky if we have the courage, and also consider the story of a people who moved from tsarist serfdom to the first man in space in just about half a century.And if we think we can intimidate Russians with threats, sanctions and the rattling of arms we should repeat to ourselves, several times, Stalingrad, Stalingrad, Stalingrad.Then, perhaps, we might claim to understand a little better what it is to\u00a0be\u00a0Russian.Ian FlintoffOxford", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Europe", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "European Union", "Nato"], "title": "The EU approach to Russia: beyond Kremlinology | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T19:23:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Fashion chain New Look is to focus on expanding in China and Poland but will pull out of Russia and Ukraine amid political instability in the region.Anders Kristiansen, New Look\u2019s chief executive, said he expected to complete the closure of 20 stores in Russia and six in Ukraine in the next few days.The decision to exit comes after New Look said in August that it had \u201cpaused\u201d expansion in Russia.\u201cWe took the decision four to six months ago when the political issues erupted. Since then the retail environment has been going through a tough period,\u201d Kristiansen said.He added that many other retailers were also \u201creally suffering\u201d in the region.\u201cWith the market uncertainty it didn\u2019t feel right and the other point is that we have got China performing really well, so why not channel money there,\u201d he said. Kristiansen said the exit from Russia did not mark a slowdown in international expansion plans. \u201cOur aim is to build a global brand and we continue to execute that strategy,\u201d he said.The retailer, which is in the process of selling its Mim chain in France, has also recently exited stores in Morocco and Thailand, and expects to have 20 stores in China by the end of its financial year in March. It already has about 30 sites lined up for next year.Strong sales in China helped offset a slowdown in sales in the UK amid unseasonably warm weather.Sales growth at established stores dropped from 9.1% in the three months to the end of July to just 2.4% in the following quarter. Total sales rose 4.7% to \u00a3753.2m and underlying profit rose 18.5% to \u00a370.9m in the six months to the end of September as the group reduced losses at Mim.\u201cThere are huge opportunities [in China]. The first step will be 300 stores and then we will go from there,\u201d said Kristiansen, who previously ran more than 6,000 stores in China for Danish brand Bestseller.Since he arrived at New Look last year, Kristiansen said he had tried to simplify its overseas business and focus on markets where it could find major expansion. He said the retailer expects to add four more stores in Poland by April on top of the 11 already in place. It is also opening concession outlets in Germany.Sales via the internet rose 36.4% in the six months to 27 September helped by strong sales via Asos as well as New Look\u2019s own website.", "tags": ["New Look", "Retail industry", "Business", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Poland"], "title": "New Look quits Russia and Ukraine"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T19:23:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Fashion chain New Look is to focus on expanding in China and Poland but will pull out of Russia and Ukraine amid political instability in the region.Anders Kristiansen, New Look\u2019s chief executive, said he expected to complete the closure of 20 stores in Russia and six in Ukraine in the next few days.The decision to exit comes after New Look said in August that it had \u201cpaused\u201d expansion in Russia.\u201cWe took the decision four to six months ago when the political issues erupted. Since then the retail environment has been going through a tough period,\u201d Kristiansen said.He added that many other retailers were also \u201creally suffering\u201d in the region.\u201cWith the market uncertainty it didn\u2019t feel right and the other point is that we have got China performing really well, so why not channel money there,\u201d he said. Kristiansen said the exit from Russia did not mark a slowdown in international expansion plans. \u201cOur aim is to build a global brand and we continue to execute that strategy,\u201d he said.The retailer, which is in the process of selling its Mim chain in France, has also recently exited stores in Morocco and Thailand, and expects to have 20 stores in China by the end of its financial year in March. It already has about 30 sites lined up for next year.Strong sales in China helped offset a slowdown in sales in the UK amid unseasonably warm weather.Sales growth at established stores dropped from 9.1% in the three months to the end of July to just 2.4% in the following quarter. Total sales rose 4.7% to \u00a3753.2m and underlying profit rose 18.5% to \u00a370.9m in the six months to the end of September as the group reduced losses at Mim.\u201cThere are huge opportunities [in China]. The first step will be 300 stores and then we will go from there,\u201d said Kristiansen, who previously ran more than 6,000 stores in China for Danish brand Bestseller.Since he arrived at New Look last year, Kristiansen said he had tried to simplify its overseas business and focus on markets where it could find major expansion. He said the retailer expects to add four more stores in Poland by April on top of the 11 already in place. It is also opening concession outlets in Germany.Sales via the internet rose 36.4% in the six months to 27 September helped by strong sales via Asos as well as New Look\u2019s own website.", "tags": ["New Look", "Retail industry", "Business", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Poland"], "title": "New Look quits Russia and Ukraine"},{"date": "2014-10-30T13:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s state funded news channel RT, formerly Russia Today, launches its dedicated UK news channel on Thursday, which aims to \u201cdissect the implications of major international developments for UK audiences\u201d. To mark its arrival, we look at back at some of its most memorable moments.In August 2013 journalist and foreign correspondent James Kirchick was invited on to RT to discuss Chelsea Manning\u2019s sentencing. He decided instead to use the opportunity to attack Russia\u2019s anti-gay laws: \u201cBeing here on a Kremlin-funded propaganda network, I\u2019m gonna wear my gay pride suspenders, and I\u2019m gonna speak out against the horrific anti-gay legislation that Vladimir Putin has signed into law, that was passed by the Russian Duma, that criminalises homosexual propaganda [and] that effectively makes it illegal to talk about homosexuality in public.\u201d The host of RT show Breaking the Set, Abby Martin, spoke out against the Russian invasion of Crimea in March this year: \u201cI can\u2019t say enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation\u2019s affairs.\u201d She added: \u201cWhat Russia did is wrong. Military intervention is never the answer, and I will not sit here and apologise or defend military aggression.\u201dRT issued a statement saying, \u201cContrary to the popular opinion, RT doesn\u2019t beat its journalists into submission, and they are free to express their own opinions, not just in private but on the air.\u201d It added: \u201cIn her comment Ms Martin also noted that she does not possess a deep knowledge of reality of the situation in Crimea. As such we\u2019ll be sending her to Crimea to give her an opportunity to make up her own mind from the epicentre of the story.\u201d Martin did not go to Crimea.The next day RT anchor Liz Wahl quit live on air saying \u201cpersonally I can\u2019t be part of a network funded by the Russian government, that whitewashes the actions of Putin. I\u2019m proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth and that is why, after this news cast, I\u2019m resigning.\u201d RT responded with a statement: \u201cWhen a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organisation, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional. But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt.\u201d But say what you will about RT, it does have some very compelling political pundits, like actor Steven Seagal, for example, who offered viewers his expertise on the Ukraine situation: \u201cOn supposedly quote unquote respectable news channels, they keep saying \u2018just like when Russia attacked Georgia\u2026\u2019 Really? How about telling the truth? Didn\u2019t Georgia attack Russia, and didn\u2019t Russia retaliate? Maybe people should either do their homework, or, you know, just stop saying what they\u2019re told to say.\u201dSeagal has described Putin as \u201cone of the greatest world leaders, if not the greatest world leader, alive today.\u201d Bradford MP George Galloway is also a regular on the channel and earned \u00a325,600 in the first half of this year for appearances on RT. Here he argues that \u201cRussia has every right, indeed, obligation, to act in defence of its compatriots, its citizens, its economic and military assets which it has on the territory of the Ukraine by agreement and by treaty.\u201d He says the EU should not \u201cpoke the bear with a stick\u201d, the bear being Russia. And to finish off, here\u2019s Putin singing the Fats Domino classic Blueberry Hill at a charity dinner in 2010. ", "tags": ["TV news", "Television & radio", "Russia", "UK news", "Television industry", "The news on TV", "Media", "US news", "World news", "Europe", "Television", "Russia Today"], "title": "RT: Russia Today's six most memorable moments"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T19:23:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Fashion chain New Look is to focus on expanding in China and Poland but will pull out of Russia and Ukraine amid political instability in the region.Anders Kristiansen, New Look\u2019s chief executive, said he expected to complete the closure of 20 stores in Russia and six in Ukraine in the next few days.The decision to exit comes after New Look said in August that it had \u201cpaused\u201d expansion in Russia.\u201cWe took the decision four to six months ago when the political issues erupted. Since then the retail environment has been going through a tough period,\u201d Kristiansen said.He added that many other retailers were also \u201creally suffering\u201d in the region.\u201cWith the market uncertainty it didn\u2019t feel right and the other point is that we have got China performing really well, so why not channel money there,\u201d he said. Kristiansen said the exit from Russia did not mark a slowdown in international expansion plans. \u201cOur aim is to build a global brand and we continue to execute that strategy,\u201d he said.The retailer, which is in the process of selling its Mim chain in France, has also recently exited stores in Morocco and Thailand, and expects to have 20 stores in China by the end of its financial year in March. It already has about 30 sites lined up for next year.Strong sales in China helped offset a slowdown in sales in the UK amid unseasonably warm weather.Sales growth at established stores dropped from 9.1% in the three months to the end of July to just 2.4% in the following quarter. Total sales rose 4.7% to \u00a3753.2m and underlying profit rose 18.5% to \u00a370.9m in the six months to the end of September as the group reduced losses at Mim.\u201cThere are huge opportunities [in China]. The first step will be 300 stores and then we will go from there,\u201d said Kristiansen, who previously ran more than 6,000 stores in China for Danish brand Bestseller.Since he arrived at New Look last year, Kristiansen said he had tried to simplify its overseas business and focus on markets where it could find major expansion. He said the retailer expects to add four more stores in Poland by April on top of the 11 already in place. It is also opening concession outlets in Germany.Sales via the internet rose 36.4% in the six months to 27 September helped by strong sales via Asos as well as New Look\u2019s own website.", "tags": ["New Look", "Retail industry", "Business", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Poland"], "title": "New Look quits Russia and Ukraine"},{"date": "2014-10-30T13:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s state funded news channel RT, formerly Russia Today, launches its dedicated UK news channel on Thursday, which aims to \u201cdissect the implications of major international developments for UK audiences\u201d. To mark its arrival, we look at back at some of its most memorable moments.In August 2013 journalist and foreign correspondent James Kirchick was invited on to RT to discuss Chelsea Manning\u2019s sentencing. He decided instead to use the opportunity to attack Russia\u2019s anti-gay laws: \u201cBeing here on a Kremlin-funded propaganda network, I\u2019m gonna wear my gay pride suspenders, and I\u2019m gonna speak out against the horrific anti-gay legislation that Vladimir Putin has signed into law, that was passed by the Russian Duma, that criminalises homosexual propaganda [and] that effectively makes it illegal to talk about homosexuality in public.\u201d The host of RT show Breaking the Set, Abby Martin, spoke out against the Russian invasion of Crimea in March this year: \u201cI can\u2019t say enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation\u2019s affairs.\u201d She added: \u201cWhat Russia did is wrong. Military intervention is never the answer, and I will not sit here and apologise or defend military aggression.\u201dRT issued a statement saying, \u201cContrary to the popular opinion, RT doesn\u2019t beat its journalists into submission, and they are free to express their own opinions, not just in private but on the air.\u201d It added: \u201cIn her comment Ms Martin also noted that she does not possess a deep knowledge of reality of the situation in Crimea. As such we\u2019ll be sending her to Crimea to give her an opportunity to make up her own mind from the epicentre of the story.\u201d Martin did not go to Crimea.The next day RT anchor Liz Wahl quit live on air saying \u201cpersonally I can\u2019t be part of a network funded by the Russian government, that whitewashes the actions of Putin. I\u2019m proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth and that is why, after this news cast, I\u2019m resigning.\u201d RT responded with a statement: \u201cWhen a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organisation, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional. But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt.\u201d But say what you will about RT, it does have some very compelling political pundits, like actor Steven Seagal, for example, who offered viewers his expertise on the Ukraine situation: \u201cOn supposedly quote unquote respectable news channels, they keep saying \u2018just like when Russia attacked Georgia\u2026\u2019 Really? How about telling the truth? Didn\u2019t Georgia attack Russia, and didn\u2019t Russia retaliate? Maybe people should either do their homework, or, you know, just stop saying what they\u2019re told to say.\u201dSeagal has described Putin as \u201cone of the greatest world leaders, if not the greatest world leader, alive today.\u201d Bradford MP George Galloway is also a regular on the channel and earned \u00a325,600 in the first half of this year for appearances on RT. Here he argues that \u201cRussia has every right, indeed, obligation, to act in defence of its compatriots, its citizens, its economic and military assets which it has on the territory of the Ukraine by agreement and by treaty.\u201d He says the EU should not \u201cpoke the bear with a stick\u201d, the bear being Russia. And to finish off, here\u2019s Putin singing the Fats Domino classic Blueberry Hill at a charity dinner in 2010. ", "tags": ["TV news", "Television & radio", "Russia", "UK news", "Television industry", "The news on TV", "Media", "US news", "World news", "Europe", "Television", "Russia Today"], "title": "RT: Russia Today's six most memorable moments"},{"date": "2014-12-24T13:04:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nIt is a quiet day on the bourses in continental Europe with markets barely moving. France\u2019s main market dropped after the government revealed that unemployment had hit a record high.That is all from the business live blog. We will be back next week. Merry Christmas to all our readers.\n\n12.59pm GMT\n12:59\n\nNews flash from Reuters:Russia is holding talks with international ratings agencies about the situation in the Russian economy.\n\n12.45pm GMT\n12:45\n\nThe FTSE100 has closed. On a day of thin trading, when many traders were out the office, the UK index of leading shares finished up 0.18%.Updated\nat 12.45pm GMT\n\n\n12.40pm GMT\n12:40\n\nChristmas Day used to be the only time of year when no one could buy anything.Not any more.This year 8 million people are expected to be distracted from turkey and TV by bargain-hunting on their smartphones and tablets, writes Guardian retail reporter Sarah Butler.As an increasing number of retailers begin their end of year sales online on Christmas Eve, shoppers are expected to spend 25% more than last year on Christmas Day with most logging on at midday according to online retailing body imrg and research firm Experian.Christmas Day shopping has become increasingly popular over the past few years with more than half of consumers expected to log on to at least browse, according to card provider Barclaycard.Growth is being driven by a rise in the popularity of tablet computers, which make shopping from the sofa an attractive pastime, while the likes of Marks & Spencer, Boots and Currys all start their sales online on Christmas Eve and Amazon launches its post-Christmas discounts just after the Queen\u2019s speech at 4pm.Here is the full story.\n\n12.28pm GMT\n12:28\n\nUnemployment in France has hit a record high, according to the latest official data published today.The number of job seekers reached record levels in November, with 3.488m people claiming out-of-work benefits.The figures showed a rise of 27,400 people on the jobless queue compared to the previous month, up 0.8% from October. Unemployment has risen 5.8% over the last year, despite promises by the government to get more people into work.In an interview last month, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande said he would not stand again for the French presidency in 2017 if he had not managed to cut unemployment.\n\n11.43am GMT\n11:43\n\nShares in BP have edged up 0.5% today, after reports that the oil company is close to a deal with its Russian partner Rosneft to develop oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP has a 20% stake in Rosneft and has continued to make plans with the Kremlin- controlled firm despite western sanctions.The latest deal was reported by the Russian daily Kommersant, which says that Rosneft has signed a \u201cstrategic partnership\u201d with BP to explore oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP will pay around $700-$800m to get a 20% stake in the Tass Yuriakh field in eastern Siberia, estimated to contain 1 bn barrels of reserves. So far, the two sides have only initialled a preliminary deal, but plan to seal the deal in 2015.BP and Rosneft have declined to comment.BP has insisted it will still do business in Russia, despite warning investors it could be damaged by the fallout from western sanctions.\n\n11.16am GMT\n11:16\n\nHolger Zschaepitz, a senior editor at Die Welt, points out that many investors already see Russian bonds as junk.#Russia bond market unchg despite S&P junk warning. 10yr yield stays at 13.17% as markets have treated Russia as junk for several weeks.\n\n11.09am GMT\n11:09\n\nHoward Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS, is not slackening his output when it comes to analysing the latest batch of UK productivity figures.Productivity is rising, but the glass looks half-empty.Some modest festive cheer for the UK economy, with labour productivity showing some welcome and much-needed improvement in the third quarter. Nevertheless, productivity currently remains limited compared to pre-crisis levels and there is still considerable uncertainty as to how much of this is due to structural factors. How much productivity improves going forward will be a critical factor in how soon and how far the Bank of England raises interest rates.  The extent to which the weakness in the UK\u2019s productivity has been structural rather than cyclical has vital implications for the economy\u2019s growth potential and for policy. If productivity fails to pick up appreciably over the coming quarters, it indicates that the economy has less potential to grow without generating inflationary pressures and that interest rates will likely need to rise at a faster rate than currently envisaged. My emphasis He identifies four factors about the recession and recovery that could do lasting damage to UK productivity.\n\n10.54am GMT\n10:54\n\nThe jolly number crunchers at the Office for National Statistics have released data showing who will spend Christmas Day at work.Here are the stats courtesy of this excellent blog from Guardian\u2019s data team.Most of the people working at Christmas are carers and nurses, with over a quarter of a million people in these professions working on 25 December.The big unanswered question: why do 51% of the clergy get a day off on Christmas?\n\n10.33am GMT\n10:33\n\nHere is the UK\u2019s productivity story in graphs.Productivity has improved but not made up ground lost during the economic crisis.London and the south east has its own economy, operating in a very different way from the rest of the country.\n\n10.12am GMT\n10:12\n\nUK labour productivity has improved, but remains below its pre-crisis peak.Worker productivity increased by 0.6% in the third quarter of 2014 compared with the previous quarter, according to data released by the Office for National Statistics. It was 0.3% higher than 2013, but 2% below where it was before the 2008 economic crash.Here are the headlines from the ONS release:Updated\nat 10.13am GMT\n", "tags": ["Russia", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Shopping trips", "Retail industry", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia on the verge of junk rating over weak economy - business live"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T19:23:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Fashion chain New Look is to focus on expanding in China and Poland but will pull out of Russia and Ukraine amid political instability in the region.Anders Kristiansen, New Look\u2019s chief executive, said he expected to complete the closure of 20 stores in Russia and six in Ukraine in the next few days.The decision to exit comes after New Look said in August that it had \u201cpaused\u201d expansion in Russia.\u201cWe took the decision four to six months ago when the political issues erupted. Since then the retail environment has been going through a tough period,\u201d Kristiansen said.He added that many other retailers were also \u201creally suffering\u201d in the region.\u201cWith the market uncertainty it didn\u2019t feel right and the other point is that we have got China performing really well, so why not channel money there,\u201d he said. Kristiansen said the exit from Russia did not mark a slowdown in international expansion plans. \u201cOur aim is to build a global brand and we continue to execute that strategy,\u201d he said.The retailer, which is in the process of selling its Mim chain in France, has also recently exited stores in Morocco and Thailand, and expects to have 20 stores in China by the end of its financial year in March. It already has about 30 sites lined up for next year.Strong sales in China helped offset a slowdown in sales in the UK amid unseasonably warm weather.Sales growth at established stores dropped from 9.1% in the three months to the end of July to just 2.4% in the following quarter. Total sales rose 4.7% to \u00a3753.2m and underlying profit rose 18.5% to \u00a370.9m in the six months to the end of September as the group reduced losses at Mim.\u201cThere are huge opportunities [in China]. The first step will be 300 stores and then we will go from there,\u201d said Kristiansen, who previously ran more than 6,000 stores in China for Danish brand Bestseller.Since he arrived at New Look last year, Kristiansen said he had tried to simplify its overseas business and focus on markets where it could find major expansion. He said the retailer expects to add four more stores in Poland by April on top of the 11 already in place. It is also opening concession outlets in Germany.Sales via the internet rose 36.4% in the six months to 27 September helped by strong sales via Asos as well as New Look\u2019s own website.", "tags": ["New Look", "Retail industry", "Business", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Poland"], "title": "New Look quits Russia and Ukraine"},{"date": "2014-10-30T13:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s state funded news channel RT, formerly Russia Today, launches its dedicated UK news channel on Thursday, which aims to \u201cdissect the implications of major international developments for UK audiences\u201d. To mark its arrival, we look at back at some of its most memorable moments.In August 2013 journalist and foreign correspondent James Kirchick was invited on to RT to discuss Chelsea Manning\u2019s sentencing. He decided instead to use the opportunity to attack Russia\u2019s anti-gay laws: \u201cBeing here on a Kremlin-funded propaganda network, I\u2019m gonna wear my gay pride suspenders, and I\u2019m gonna speak out against the horrific anti-gay legislation that Vladimir Putin has signed into law, that was passed by the Russian Duma, that criminalises homosexual propaganda [and] that effectively makes it illegal to talk about homosexuality in public.\u201d The host of RT show Breaking the Set, Abby Martin, spoke out against the Russian invasion of Crimea in March this year: \u201cI can\u2019t say enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation\u2019s affairs.\u201d She added: \u201cWhat Russia did is wrong. Military intervention is never the answer, and I will not sit here and apologise or defend military aggression.\u201dRT issued a statement saying, \u201cContrary to the popular opinion, RT doesn\u2019t beat its journalists into submission, and they are free to express their own opinions, not just in private but on the air.\u201d It added: \u201cIn her comment Ms Martin also noted that she does not possess a deep knowledge of reality of the situation in Crimea. As such we\u2019ll be sending her to Crimea to give her an opportunity to make up her own mind from the epicentre of the story.\u201d Martin did not go to Crimea.The next day RT anchor Liz Wahl quit live on air saying \u201cpersonally I can\u2019t be part of a network funded by the Russian government, that whitewashes the actions of Putin. I\u2019m proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth and that is why, after this news cast, I\u2019m resigning.\u201d RT responded with a statement: \u201cWhen a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organisation, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional. But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt.\u201d But say what you will about RT, it does have some very compelling political pundits, like actor Steven Seagal, for example, who offered viewers his expertise on the Ukraine situation: \u201cOn supposedly quote unquote respectable news channels, they keep saying \u2018just like when Russia attacked Georgia\u2026\u2019 Really? How about telling the truth? Didn\u2019t Georgia attack Russia, and didn\u2019t Russia retaliate? Maybe people should either do their homework, or, you know, just stop saying what they\u2019re told to say.\u201dSeagal has described Putin as \u201cone of the greatest world leaders, if not the greatest world leader, alive today.\u201d Bradford MP George Galloway is also a regular on the channel and earned \u00a325,600 in the first half of this year for appearances on RT. Here he argues that \u201cRussia has every right, indeed, obligation, to act in defence of its compatriots, its citizens, its economic and military assets which it has on the territory of the Ukraine by agreement and by treaty.\u201d He says the EU should not \u201cpoke the bear with a stick\u201d, the bear being Russia. And to finish off, here\u2019s Putin singing the Fats Domino classic Blueberry Hill at a charity dinner in 2010. ", "tags": ["TV news", "Television & radio", "Russia", "UK news", "Television industry", "The news on TV", "Media", "US news", "World news", "Europe", "Television", "Russia Today"], "title": "RT: Russia Today's six most memorable moments"},{"date": "2014-12-24T13:04:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nIt is a quiet day on the bourses in continental Europe with markets barely moving. France\u2019s main market dropped after the government revealed that unemployment had hit a record high.That is all from the business live blog. We will be back next week. Merry Christmas to all our readers.\n\n12.59pm GMT\n12:59\n\nNews flash from Reuters:Russia is holding talks with international ratings agencies about the situation in the Russian economy.\n\n12.45pm GMT\n12:45\n\nThe FTSE100 has closed. On a day of thin trading, when many traders were out the office, the UK index of leading shares finished up 0.18%.Updated\nat 12.45pm GMT\n\n\n12.40pm GMT\n12:40\n\nChristmas Day used to be the only time of year when no one could buy anything.Not any more.This year 8 million people are expected to be distracted from turkey and TV by bargain-hunting on their smartphones and tablets, writes Guardian retail reporter Sarah Butler.As an increasing number of retailers begin their end of year sales online on Christmas Eve, shoppers are expected to spend 25% more than last year on Christmas Day with most logging on at midday according to online retailing body imrg and research firm Experian.Christmas Day shopping has become increasingly popular over the past few years with more than half of consumers expected to log on to at least browse, according to card provider Barclaycard.Growth is being driven by a rise in the popularity of tablet computers, which make shopping from the sofa an attractive pastime, while the likes of Marks & Spencer, Boots and Currys all start their sales online on Christmas Eve and Amazon launches its post-Christmas discounts just after the Queen\u2019s speech at 4pm.Here is the full story.\n\n12.28pm GMT\n12:28\n\nUnemployment in France has hit a record high, according to the latest official data published today.The number of job seekers reached record levels in November, with 3.488m people claiming out-of-work benefits.The figures showed a rise of 27,400 people on the jobless queue compared to the previous month, up 0.8% from October. Unemployment has risen 5.8% over the last year, despite promises by the government to get more people into work.In an interview last month, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande said he would not stand again for the French presidency in 2017 if he had not managed to cut unemployment.\n\n11.43am GMT\n11:43\n\nShares in BP have edged up 0.5% today, after reports that the oil company is close to a deal with its Russian partner Rosneft to develop oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP has a 20% stake in Rosneft and has continued to make plans with the Kremlin- controlled firm despite western sanctions.The latest deal was reported by the Russian daily Kommersant, which says that Rosneft has signed a \u201cstrategic partnership\u201d with BP to explore oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP will pay around $700-$800m to get a 20% stake in the Tass Yuriakh field in eastern Siberia, estimated to contain 1 bn barrels of reserves. So far, the two sides have only initialled a preliminary deal, but plan to seal the deal in 2015.BP and Rosneft have declined to comment.BP has insisted it will still do business in Russia, despite warning investors it could be damaged by the fallout from western sanctions.\n\n11.16am GMT\n11:16\n\nHolger Zschaepitz, a senior editor at Die Welt, points out that many investors already see Russian bonds as junk.#Russia bond market unchg despite S&P junk warning. 10yr yield stays at 13.17% as markets have treated Russia as junk for several weeks.\n\n11.09am GMT\n11:09\n\nHoward Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS, is not slackening his output when it comes to analysing the latest batch of UK productivity figures.Productivity is rising, but the glass looks half-empty.Some modest festive cheer for the UK economy, with labour productivity showing some welcome and much-needed improvement in the third quarter. Nevertheless, productivity currently remains limited compared to pre-crisis levels and there is still considerable uncertainty as to how much of this is due to structural factors. How much productivity improves going forward will be a critical factor in how soon and how far the Bank of England raises interest rates.  The extent to which the weakness in the UK\u2019s productivity has been structural rather than cyclical has vital implications for the economy\u2019s growth potential and for policy. If productivity fails to pick up appreciably over the coming quarters, it indicates that the economy has less potential to grow without generating inflationary pressures and that interest rates will likely need to rise at a faster rate than currently envisaged. My emphasis He identifies four factors about the recession and recovery that could do lasting damage to UK productivity.\n\n10.54am GMT\n10:54\n\nThe jolly number crunchers at the Office for National Statistics have released data showing who will spend Christmas Day at work.Here are the stats courtesy of this excellent blog from Guardian\u2019s data team.Most of the people working at Christmas are carers and nurses, with over a quarter of a million people in these professions working on 25 December.The big unanswered question: why do 51% of the clergy get a day off on Christmas?\n\n10.33am GMT\n10:33\n\nHere is the UK\u2019s productivity story in graphs.Productivity has improved but not made up ground lost during the economic crisis.London and the south east has its own economy, operating in a very different way from the rest of the country.\n\n10.12am GMT\n10:12\n\nUK labour productivity has improved, but remains below its pre-crisis peak.Worker productivity increased by 0.6% in the third quarter of 2014 compared with the previous quarter, according to data released by the Office for National Statistics. It was 0.3% higher than 2013, but 2% below where it was before the 2008 economic crash.Here are the headlines from the ONS release:Updated\nat 10.13am GMT\n", "tags": ["Russia", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Shopping trips", "Retail industry", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia on the verge of junk rating over weak economy - business live"},{"date": "2014-12-26T17:06:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "He was Russia\u2019s richest man, and then its most high-profile prisoner. Now, a year after Vladimir Putin pardoned him and released him from jail, Mikhail Khodorkovsky is living in Zurich and plotting the downfall of the man who put him behind bars for a decade.\u201cI will work to make sure the regime in Russia changes,\u201d he says. \u201cThe question is: am I prepared to go all the way? And yes, I am prepared to go all the way.\u201dThe Guardian\u2019s meeting with Khodorkovsky takes place in a handsome but functional five-story building in central Zurich which serves as his office. He appears with a big pair of headphones round his neck and a black rucksack over his shoulders. The top-floor views of the River Limmat and the spires of central Zurich are a far cry from what he had to get used to for a decade.\u201cWhen I look back now, I can\u2019t believe that a year ago I was in [prison] and didn\u2019t think I\u2019d ever be set free,\u201d he says, pausing to eat slices of dried banana from a bowl on the table. \u201cI thought there would be a third case.\u201dPutin announced that he planned to free Khodorkovsky on the sidelines of his marathon pre-Christmas press conference last December. It came as a surprise: there had been murmurings that a third criminal case was being prepared in order to keep the former oligarch locked up. But, beneath a cloak of secrecy, Khodorkovsky was whisked from his prison cell that night and put on a plane to St Petersburg, where he switched planes on the tarmac to a waiting aircraft that flew him to Berlin.Khodorkovksy says he promised Putin three things in a handwritten letter asking to be freed so he could see his mother, who was terminally ill: that he would leave Russia to spend time with his family, would stay away from politics, and would not attempt to win back his shares in Yukos \u2013 his dismantled oil company \u2013 or get involved in any court cases.Until late in the summer, when his mother died, he was indeed silent, but now he has set up a foundation called Open Russia and has been making political statements.\u201cIt\u2019s true I don\u2019t want to get involved in politics,\u201d he claims. \u201cI want to support people who share my values, and that\u2019s what I\u2019m doing. In Russia, they call that politics, OK, well fine,\u201d he says. He claims that by \u201cchanging the regime\u201d he does not necessarily mean Putin \u2013 in the unlikely event that Putin decided tomorrow he wanted to completely change his style of rule, Khodorkovsky says he would be happy to work with him. He also insists he personally has no burning desire to be president: \u201cI can\u2019t really say that I am really interested in doing that, but if people ask me, then yeah, OK, I\u2019m ready.\u201dBut he surely knows that suggesting, however obliquely, that he might like to be president is not going to go down well with Putin. The last time Khodorkovsky dabbled in politics, he was arrested and spent the next 10 years in prison. While there is no doubt that most of the people who got rich in 1990s Russia committed a multitude of sins, there was also little doubt that the proceedings against Khodorkovsky were political. Is he really ready to take on the Kremlin again?His office in Zurich is just a few blocks from the house where Vladimir Lenin lived for a year until April 1917. The Bolsheviks at the time were a marginal group with little support in Russia, and Lenin\u2019s pontificating from Switzerland seemed something of an irrelevance. Within a few months of being dispatched to Russia by train, however, Lenin had deposed the provisional government and become the new leader of Russia.In modern times, however, the character with most parallels to Khodorkovsky is Boris Berezovsky. Both men grew fabulously wealthy through the dubious and unjust privatisation process in the 1990s, and both were close to the Kremlin. Berezovsky, who was Putin\u2019s political mentor, fell out with his prot\u00e9g\u00e9 and fled to London, where he died in an apparent suicide in 2013.\u201cTo turn into someone like Berezovsky, as well as the physical circumstances you also need to have the internal predisposition to this kind of situation. He was a real opportunist, whereas I am more of a pragmatist. I am used to running businesses. I am used to setting realistic goals and achieving them. Sometimes they are major goals, sometimes minor ones, and sometimes achieving them takes longer than I thought. But they are always pragmatic goals, pragmatic steps and carefully planned movement towards the goal.\u201dTo this end, Khodorkovsky says he spent most of his time in prison thinking about what Russia should look like after Putin.\u201cIt was very difficult over 10 years to take part in all these processes with predetermined results, in all these little insults, which happened later on in the camps. So I gave myself intellectual exercises, and set to work thinking about what mechanism there should be for the transition period. Where we need to get to is clear enough: a state governed by the rule of law. Full stop.\u201dOn the specifics, however, he is vague. How a new government would come into place \u2013 through revolution or negotiation \u2013 he declines to say. Whether there should be criminal prosecution for current regime figures, he also says should be decided later.\u201cWe will discuss this a lot, we have time. I think there will be a lot of discussion.\u201dHe talks about a transition period of two or three years in which he would be prepared to be president, but again, the mechanics of this are vague.Even in sleepy Zurich, the Kremlin is never far away. The Russian special services make it clear they are monitoring Khodorkovsky\u2019s communications, he says: if he asks someone to take a document to Moscow, that person will stopped at customs and subjected to a search. At his public events, there are often uninvited guests.\u201cYou can tell them by the questions. Sometimes they introduce themselves, sometimes they don\u2019t. Sometimes the local guys tell me: \u2018Ah, your lot have come again\u2019. They know everyone here, it\u2019s a small country.\u201dHe is not visibly followed, he says, but is aware of the risks of vocal opposition: \u201cI understand perfectly well that if Putin gives the order to have me removed, I will be removed. What else is there to say? But given I\u2019m his personal opponent, it would be a very public gesture. I don\u2019t know how much that would stop him, when you think about what has happened in Ukraine. But let\u2019s hope that some kind of rules of the game remain in force.\u201dKhodorkovsky speaks with quiet determination, but also a studied indifference. He says he has neither the time, nor the desire to continue his prison diaries, and insists he has no dreams, no flashbacks to his time in jail. \u201cI\u2019m completely calm. It happened, so, whatever. Time to move on.\u201dIt is nice to eat good food, he says, but insists he was not that bothered by prison fare. \u201cI\u2019m a pretty easy-going person. Whatever you feed me, I\u2019m fine. So I didn\u2019t really suffer from prison food, although really you could only call it \u2018food\u2019 in the sense that it had calories in it.\u201dAs for things which surprised him when he emerged from the electronics-free vacuum that is Russian prison, Khodorkovsky says most things he understood, but after a decade locked up, the power of social media had been the biggest shock.\u201cI read 200 pages a day, so I had a theoretical understanding of everything that was happening, even of iPhones. The phenomenon of social media came as a surprise to me, though. I knew that these things exists, but to understand the influence it has had on humankind, you have to really feel that.\u201dHe claims that one advantage he has gained from his time in prison is patience.\u201cPrison taught me that time does not have as much significance as we think. Just because something didn\u2019t happen today doesn\u2019t mean it won\u2019t happen tomorrow,\u201d he says. \u201cThere is no rush. Ten years is not a long time. For me, 2024 is not a long time away. There is a plan for these years. And if everything will happen the right way, I will implement it.\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mikhail Khodorkovsky on life after prison and Russia after Putin"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T19:23:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Fashion chain New Look is to focus on expanding in China and Poland but will pull out of Russia and Ukraine amid political instability in the region.Anders Kristiansen, New Look\u2019s chief executive, said he expected to complete the closure of 20 stores in Russia and six in Ukraine in the next few days.The decision to exit comes after New Look said in August that it had \u201cpaused\u201d expansion in Russia.\u201cWe took the decision four to six months ago when the political issues erupted. Since then the retail environment has been going through a tough period,\u201d Kristiansen said.He added that many other retailers were also \u201creally suffering\u201d in the region.\u201cWith the market uncertainty it didn\u2019t feel right and the other point is that we have got China performing really well, so why not channel money there,\u201d he said. Kristiansen said the exit from Russia did not mark a slowdown in international expansion plans. \u201cOur aim is to build a global brand and we continue to execute that strategy,\u201d he said.The retailer, which is in the process of selling its Mim chain in France, has also recently exited stores in Morocco and Thailand, and expects to have 20 stores in China by the end of its financial year in March. It already has about 30 sites lined up for next year.Strong sales in China helped offset a slowdown in sales in the UK amid unseasonably warm weather.Sales growth at established stores dropped from 9.1% in the three months to the end of July to just 2.4% in the following quarter. Total sales rose 4.7% to \u00a3753.2m and underlying profit rose 18.5% to \u00a370.9m in the six months to the end of September as the group reduced losses at Mim.\u201cThere are huge opportunities [in China]. The first step will be 300 stores and then we will go from there,\u201d said Kristiansen, who previously ran more than 6,000 stores in China for Danish brand Bestseller.Since he arrived at New Look last year, Kristiansen said he had tried to simplify its overseas business and focus on markets where it could find major expansion. He said the retailer expects to add four more stores in Poland by April on top of the 11 already in place. It is also opening concession outlets in Germany.Sales via the internet rose 36.4% in the six months to 27 September helped by strong sales via Asos as well as New Look\u2019s own website.", "tags": ["New Look", "Retail industry", "Business", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Poland"], "title": "New Look quits Russia and Ukraine"},{"date": "2014-10-30T13:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s state funded news channel RT, formerly Russia Today, launches its dedicated UK news channel on Thursday, which aims to \u201cdissect the implications of major international developments for UK audiences\u201d. To mark its arrival, we look at back at some of its most memorable moments.In August 2013 journalist and foreign correspondent James Kirchick was invited on to RT to discuss Chelsea Manning\u2019s sentencing. He decided instead to use the opportunity to attack Russia\u2019s anti-gay laws: \u201cBeing here on a Kremlin-funded propaganda network, I\u2019m gonna wear my gay pride suspenders, and I\u2019m gonna speak out against the horrific anti-gay legislation that Vladimir Putin has signed into law, that was passed by the Russian Duma, that criminalises homosexual propaganda [and] that effectively makes it illegal to talk about homosexuality in public.\u201d The host of RT show Breaking the Set, Abby Martin, spoke out against the Russian invasion of Crimea in March this year: \u201cI can\u2019t say enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation\u2019s affairs.\u201d She added: \u201cWhat Russia did is wrong. Military intervention is never the answer, and I will not sit here and apologise or defend military aggression.\u201dRT issued a statement saying, \u201cContrary to the popular opinion, RT doesn\u2019t beat its journalists into submission, and they are free to express their own opinions, not just in private but on the air.\u201d It added: \u201cIn her comment Ms Martin also noted that she does not possess a deep knowledge of reality of the situation in Crimea. As such we\u2019ll be sending her to Crimea to give her an opportunity to make up her own mind from the epicentre of the story.\u201d Martin did not go to Crimea.The next day RT anchor Liz Wahl quit live on air saying \u201cpersonally I can\u2019t be part of a network funded by the Russian government, that whitewashes the actions of Putin. I\u2019m proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth and that is why, after this news cast, I\u2019m resigning.\u201d RT responded with a statement: \u201cWhen a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organisation, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional. But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt.\u201d But say what you will about RT, it does have some very compelling political pundits, like actor Steven Seagal, for example, who offered viewers his expertise on the Ukraine situation: \u201cOn supposedly quote unquote respectable news channels, they keep saying \u2018just like when Russia attacked Georgia\u2026\u2019 Really? How about telling the truth? Didn\u2019t Georgia attack Russia, and didn\u2019t Russia retaliate? Maybe people should either do their homework, or, you know, just stop saying what they\u2019re told to say.\u201dSeagal has described Putin as \u201cone of the greatest world leaders, if not the greatest world leader, alive today.\u201d Bradford MP George Galloway is also a regular on the channel and earned \u00a325,600 in the first half of this year for appearances on RT. Here he argues that \u201cRussia has every right, indeed, obligation, to act in defence of its compatriots, its citizens, its economic and military assets which it has on the territory of the Ukraine by agreement and by treaty.\u201d He says the EU should not \u201cpoke the bear with a stick\u201d, the bear being Russia. And to finish off, here\u2019s Putin singing the Fats Domino classic Blueberry Hill at a charity dinner in 2010. ", "tags": ["TV news", "Television & radio", "Russia", "UK news", "Television industry", "The news on TV", "Media", "US news", "World news", "Europe", "Television", "Russia Today"], "title": "RT: Russia Today's six most memorable moments"},{"date": "2014-12-24T13:04:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nIt is a quiet day on the bourses in continental Europe with markets barely moving. France\u2019s main market dropped after the government revealed that unemployment had hit a record high.That is all from the business live blog. We will be back next week. Merry Christmas to all our readers.\n\n12.59pm GMT\n12:59\n\nNews flash from Reuters:Russia is holding talks with international ratings agencies about the situation in the Russian economy.\n\n12.45pm GMT\n12:45\n\nThe FTSE100 has closed. On a day of thin trading, when many traders were out the office, the UK index of leading shares finished up 0.18%.Updated\nat 12.45pm GMT\n\n\n12.40pm GMT\n12:40\n\nChristmas Day used to be the only time of year when no one could buy anything.Not any more.This year 8 million people are expected to be distracted from turkey and TV by bargain-hunting on their smartphones and tablets, writes Guardian retail reporter Sarah Butler.As an increasing number of retailers begin their end of year sales online on Christmas Eve, shoppers are expected to spend 25% more than last year on Christmas Day with most logging on at midday according to online retailing body imrg and research firm Experian.Christmas Day shopping has become increasingly popular over the past few years with more than half of consumers expected to log on to at least browse, according to card provider Barclaycard.Growth is being driven by a rise in the popularity of tablet computers, which make shopping from the sofa an attractive pastime, while the likes of Marks & Spencer, Boots and Currys all start their sales online on Christmas Eve and Amazon launches its post-Christmas discounts just after the Queen\u2019s speech at 4pm.Here is the full story.\n\n12.28pm GMT\n12:28\n\nUnemployment in France has hit a record high, according to the latest official data published today.The number of job seekers reached record levels in November, with 3.488m people claiming out-of-work benefits.The figures showed a rise of 27,400 people on the jobless queue compared to the previous month, up 0.8% from October. Unemployment has risen 5.8% over the last year, despite promises by the government to get more people into work.In an interview last month, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande said he would not stand again for the French presidency in 2017 if he had not managed to cut unemployment.\n\n11.43am GMT\n11:43\n\nShares in BP have edged up 0.5% today, after reports that the oil company is close to a deal with its Russian partner Rosneft to develop oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP has a 20% stake in Rosneft and has continued to make plans with the Kremlin- controlled firm despite western sanctions.The latest deal was reported by the Russian daily Kommersant, which says that Rosneft has signed a \u201cstrategic partnership\u201d with BP to explore oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP will pay around $700-$800m to get a 20% stake in the Tass Yuriakh field in eastern Siberia, estimated to contain 1 bn barrels of reserves. So far, the two sides have only initialled a preliminary deal, but plan to seal the deal in 2015.BP and Rosneft have declined to comment.BP has insisted it will still do business in Russia, despite warning investors it could be damaged by the fallout from western sanctions.\n\n11.16am GMT\n11:16\n\nHolger Zschaepitz, a senior editor at Die Welt, points out that many investors already see Russian bonds as junk.#Russia bond market unchg despite S&P junk warning. 10yr yield stays at 13.17% as markets have treated Russia as junk for several weeks.\n\n11.09am GMT\n11:09\n\nHoward Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS, is not slackening his output when it comes to analysing the latest batch of UK productivity figures.Productivity is rising, but the glass looks half-empty.Some modest festive cheer for the UK economy, with labour productivity showing some welcome and much-needed improvement in the third quarter. Nevertheless, productivity currently remains limited compared to pre-crisis levels and there is still considerable uncertainty as to how much of this is due to structural factors. How much productivity improves going forward will be a critical factor in how soon and how far the Bank of England raises interest rates.  The extent to which the weakness in the UK\u2019s productivity has been structural rather than cyclical has vital implications for the economy\u2019s growth potential and for policy. If productivity fails to pick up appreciably over the coming quarters, it indicates that the economy has less potential to grow without generating inflationary pressures and that interest rates will likely need to rise at a faster rate than currently envisaged. My emphasis He identifies four factors about the recession and recovery that could do lasting damage to UK productivity.\n\n10.54am GMT\n10:54\n\nThe jolly number crunchers at the Office for National Statistics have released data showing who will spend Christmas Day at work.Here are the stats courtesy of this excellent blog from Guardian\u2019s data team.Most of the people working at Christmas are carers and nurses, with over a quarter of a million people in these professions working on 25 December.The big unanswered question: why do 51% of the clergy get a day off on Christmas?\n\n10.33am GMT\n10:33\n\nHere is the UK\u2019s productivity story in graphs.Productivity has improved but not made up ground lost during the economic crisis.London and the south east has its own economy, operating in a very different way from the rest of the country.\n\n10.12am GMT\n10:12\n\nUK labour productivity has improved, but remains below its pre-crisis peak.Worker productivity increased by 0.6% in the third quarter of 2014 compared with the previous quarter, according to data released by the Office for National Statistics. It was 0.3% higher than 2013, but 2% below where it was before the 2008 economic crash.Here are the headlines from the ONS release:Updated\nat 10.13am GMT\n", "tags": ["Russia", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Shopping trips", "Retail industry", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia on the verge of junk rating over weak economy - business live"},{"date": "2014-12-26T17:06:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "He was Russia\u2019s richest man, and then its most high-profile prisoner. Now, a year after Vladimir Putin pardoned him and released him from jail, Mikhail Khodorkovsky is living in Zurich and plotting the downfall of the man who put him behind bars for a decade.\u201cI will work to make sure the regime in Russia changes,\u201d he says. \u201cThe question is: am I prepared to go all the way? And yes, I am prepared to go all the way.\u201dThe Guardian\u2019s meeting with Khodorkovsky takes place in a handsome but functional five-story building in central Zurich which serves as his office. He appears with a big pair of headphones round his neck and a black rucksack over his shoulders. The top-floor views of the River Limmat and the spires of central Zurich are a far cry from what he had to get used to for a decade.\u201cWhen I look back now, I can\u2019t believe that a year ago I was in [prison] and didn\u2019t think I\u2019d ever be set free,\u201d he says, pausing to eat slices of dried banana from a bowl on the table. \u201cI thought there would be a third case.\u201dPutin announced that he planned to free Khodorkovsky on the sidelines of his marathon pre-Christmas press conference last December. It came as a surprise: there had been murmurings that a third criminal case was being prepared in order to keep the former oligarch locked up. But, beneath a cloak of secrecy, Khodorkovsky was whisked from his prison cell that night and put on a plane to St Petersburg, where he switched planes on the tarmac to a waiting aircraft that flew him to Berlin.Khodorkovksy says he promised Putin three things in a handwritten letter asking to be freed so he could see his mother, who was terminally ill: that he would leave Russia to spend time with his family, would stay away from politics, and would not attempt to win back his shares in Yukos \u2013 his dismantled oil company \u2013 or get involved in any court cases.Until late in the summer, when his mother died, he was indeed silent, but now he has set up a foundation called Open Russia and has been making political statements.\u201cIt\u2019s true I don\u2019t want to get involved in politics,\u201d he claims. \u201cI want to support people who share my values, and that\u2019s what I\u2019m doing. In Russia, they call that politics, OK, well fine,\u201d he says. He claims that by \u201cchanging the regime\u201d he does not necessarily mean Putin \u2013 in the unlikely event that Putin decided tomorrow he wanted to completely change his style of rule, Khodorkovsky says he would be happy to work with him. He also insists he personally has no burning desire to be president: \u201cI can\u2019t really say that I am really interested in doing that, but if people ask me, then yeah, OK, I\u2019m ready.\u201dBut he surely knows that suggesting, however obliquely, that he might like to be president is not going to go down well with Putin. The last time Khodorkovsky dabbled in politics, he was arrested and spent the next 10 years in prison. While there is no doubt that most of the people who got rich in 1990s Russia committed a multitude of sins, there was also little doubt that the proceedings against Khodorkovsky were political. Is he really ready to take on the Kremlin again?His office in Zurich is just a few blocks from the house where Vladimir Lenin lived for a year until April 1917. The Bolsheviks at the time were a marginal group with little support in Russia, and Lenin\u2019s pontificating from Switzerland seemed something of an irrelevance. Within a few months of being dispatched to Russia by train, however, Lenin had deposed the provisional government and become the new leader of Russia.In modern times, however, the character with most parallels to Khodorkovsky is Boris Berezovsky. Both men grew fabulously wealthy through the dubious and unjust privatisation process in the 1990s, and both were close to the Kremlin. Berezovsky, who was Putin\u2019s political mentor, fell out with his prot\u00e9g\u00e9 and fled to London, where he died in an apparent suicide in 2013.\u201cTo turn into someone like Berezovsky, as well as the physical circumstances you also need to have the internal predisposition to this kind of situation. He was a real opportunist, whereas I am more of a pragmatist. I am used to running businesses. I am used to setting realistic goals and achieving them. Sometimes they are major goals, sometimes minor ones, and sometimes achieving them takes longer than I thought. But they are always pragmatic goals, pragmatic steps and carefully planned movement towards the goal.\u201dTo this end, Khodorkovsky says he spent most of his time in prison thinking about what Russia should look like after Putin.\u201cIt was very difficult over 10 years to take part in all these processes with predetermined results, in all these little insults, which happened later on in the camps. So I gave myself intellectual exercises, and set to work thinking about what mechanism there should be for the transition period. Where we need to get to is clear enough: a state governed by the rule of law. Full stop.\u201dOn the specifics, however, he is vague. How a new government would come into place \u2013 through revolution or negotiation \u2013 he declines to say. Whether there should be criminal prosecution for current regime figures, he also says should be decided later.\u201cWe will discuss this a lot, we have time. I think there will be a lot of discussion.\u201dHe talks about a transition period of two or three years in which he would be prepared to be president, but again, the mechanics of this are vague.Even in sleepy Zurich, the Kremlin is never far away. The Russian special services make it clear they are monitoring Khodorkovsky\u2019s communications, he says: if he asks someone to take a document to Moscow, that person will stopped at customs and subjected to a search. At his public events, there are often uninvited guests.\u201cYou can tell them by the questions. Sometimes they introduce themselves, sometimes they don\u2019t. Sometimes the local guys tell me: \u2018Ah, your lot have come again\u2019. They know everyone here, it\u2019s a small country.\u201dHe is not visibly followed, he says, but is aware of the risks of vocal opposition: \u201cI understand perfectly well that if Putin gives the order to have me removed, I will be removed. What else is there to say? But given I\u2019m his personal opponent, it would be a very public gesture. I don\u2019t know how much that would stop him, when you think about what has happened in Ukraine. But let\u2019s hope that some kind of rules of the game remain in force.\u201dKhodorkovsky speaks with quiet determination, but also a studied indifference. He says he has neither the time, nor the desire to continue his prison diaries, and insists he has no dreams, no flashbacks to his time in jail. \u201cI\u2019m completely calm. It happened, so, whatever. Time to move on.\u201dIt is nice to eat good food, he says, but insists he was not that bothered by prison fare. \u201cI\u2019m a pretty easy-going person. Whatever you feed me, I\u2019m fine. So I didn\u2019t really suffer from prison food, although really you could only call it \u2018food\u2019 in the sense that it had calories in it.\u201dAs for things which surprised him when he emerged from the electronics-free vacuum that is Russian prison, Khodorkovsky says most things he understood, but after a decade locked up, the power of social media had been the biggest shock.\u201cI read 200 pages a day, so I had a theoretical understanding of everything that was happening, even of iPhones. The phenomenon of social media came as a surprise to me, though. I knew that these things exists, but to understand the influence it has had on humankind, you have to really feel that.\u201dHe claims that one advantage he has gained from his time in prison is patience.\u201cPrison taught me that time does not have as much significance as we think. Just because something didn\u2019t happen today doesn\u2019t mean it won\u2019t happen tomorrow,\u201d he says. \u201cThere is no rush. Ten years is not a long time. For me, 2024 is not a long time away. There is a plan for these years. And if everything will happen the right way, I will implement it.\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mikhail Khodorkovsky on life after prison and Russia after Putin"},{"date": "2014-12-17T18:13:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Cometh the hour, cometh the man. With the Russian economy suffering from its worst week in recent history, one of the country\u2019s newest citizens, French actor G\u00e9rard Depardieu, chose the moment to launch a luxury watch collection.The collection, designed by Swiss watchmaker Custos, is named \u201cProud to be Russian\u201d. The timepieces feature a Russian double-headed eagle on the face, with gold trim, and prices start at 15,000 Swiss francs (about \u00a310,000). For Russians, the price will seem significantly more expensive given the dramatic drop in the rouble this year. But at the launch, a cheerful Depardieu told them not to worry.\u201cLuxury doesn\u2019t depend on the rouble, it depends on the spiritual strength of Russians and I think our spiritual strength will win out and everything will be fine, as long as we are left in peace,\u201d he said.Depardieu suggested the financial crisis started \u201cafter a number of American banks went bankrupt\u201d and said he would watch Vladimir Putin\u2019s press conference on Thursday to hear what the Russian president had to say. Putin personally presented Depardieu with his Russian passport in January last year.Depardieu has been an outspoken supporter of Putin and on Wednesdayyesterday said western sanctions against Russia over the annexation of Crimea and the war in east Ukraine were absurd.\u201cIt\u2019s funny to put sanctions on Russia because in Europe nobody can live without Russia. People there don\u2019t understand what\u2019s happening between Russia and Ukraine,\u201d he said.The French-Russian actor was introduced at the watch launch, held in a five-star hotel next to Red Square, as \u201cwatch collector, living legend and free spirit G\u00e9rard Depardieu\u201d.In a promotional video for the event, a wide-eyed Depardieu slammed the table with his fist as he shouted out: \u201cI am proud to be Russian\u201d in heavily accented Russian.The actor spoke French at the launch, however. He struggled to find the phrase for \u201cgood evening\u201d in Russian, fumbling through incorrect versions before muttering: \u201cJe ne sais quoi, bon soir\u201d.Depardieu was given Russian citizenship after complaining about the high level of taxes in Europe. He later officially registered his residence in Mordovia, a region largely known for its system of prison camps, though he does not spend much time there. He has also struck up a friendship with Chechnya\u2019s ruthless leader Ramzan Kadyrov, after shooting a film with Elizabeth Hurley in the region last year.Depardieu has also made the headlines for frequent drunken behaviour. In a recent interview he said he sometimes drinks up to 14 bottles of wine a day.\u201cI have fallen off my motorbike many times and broken many watches,\u201d said the actor at Wednesday\u2019s launch. \u201cAnd many motorbikes. I don\u2019t really care that much about watches. But then you can\u2019t leave your watches in a safe all the time.\u201d", "tags": ["G\u00e9rard Depardieu", "Russia", "Rouble", "Europe", "World news", "Film", "Global economy", "Currencies", "Business"], "title": "G\u00e9rard Depardieu launches luxury watch in Russia amid economic turmoil"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:20:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As Vladimir Putin pursues a high-stakes expansionist foreign policy, problems are piling up on the home front. The rouble appears to be in freefall. Never since the financial crash of 1998 has the national currency seemed so weak. Russia\u2019s central bank has already spent over $100bn this year trying to prop it up. Fears of inflation, and of bank runs by Russian citizens worried about their savings, are once again haunting the country, a chilling reminder of the financial instability of the 1990s. Moscow is now expecting the economy to enter recession next year, a sharp contrast with its earlier forecast of 1.2% growth in GDP. Capital flight\u00a0is reaching new heights.The main sources of this grim reality are to\u00a0be found in the 40% drop in global oil prices since the summer, as well as in western\u00a0sanctions imposed in response to Russia\u2019s actions in Ukraine.But the bleak economic picture is also the result of one of the hugely wasted opportunities of the Putin era: there has been no genuine economic modernisation of Russia, a country that remains overwhelmingly dependent on oil and gas exports, just as it was in Soviet times. For all of Mr Putin\u2019s nationalistic posturing, this is a political leadership that has failed to bring Russia into a 21st-century economy centred on innovation, knowledge and new technologies. The heavy industry inherited from Leonid Brezhnev\u2019s USSR has been the\u00a0foundation of the Russian petro-state. More than two-thirds of Russia\u2019s exports are from the energy sector.Mr Putin\u2019s domestic strategy throughout the last decade has been to present Russians with a deal: improved living standards in return for the curbing of political freedoms and concentration of political power. This quid pro quo was made possible by higher oil prices, which rose from $30 a barrel in 2003 to a peak of $147 a barrel in 2008.Soon Moscow will surely try to mitigate the potential consequences of the rouble\u2019s decline, including unease at home. It will hope that a weakened currency will reduce the pressure on the budget, by boosting the\u00a0rouble value of Russia\u2019s oil reserves. But\u00a0that won\u2019t stop Russian banks struggling to deal with debt. And a continued fall in the\u00a0exchange rate will encourage Russians to\u00a0convert roubles to dollars, thus increasing the risk of bank runs.Mr Putin has now said that Gazprom will\u00a0scrap the South Stream gas pipeline project to Europe, a sign of the trouble Russia is in. Whether these hard times will mellow his external ambitions or fuel further revanchist adventurism is now a key question. The Russian president should come back to sober realities and choose moderation. The economic numbers leave him little alternative.", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Rouble", "Currencies", "Europe", "World news", "Gas", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil"], "title": "The Guardian view on Russia: rouble trouble | Editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-25T13:40:39Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Georgia has accused Russia of moving towards the de facto annexation of its territory, after the Kremlin announced a far-reaching military agreement with the breakaway Georgian province of Abkhazia on Monday.Under a treaty signed by Vladimir Putin and Abkhazia\u2019s leader \u2013 both former KGB officers \u2013 a Russian commander will lead a new joint force of Russian and Abkhaz troops. Abkhazia also agreed to harmonise its foreign and defence policies with Moscow\u2019s. Putin promised subsidies to the lush coastal Black Sea enclave, amounting to $270m (\u00a3170m) over the next three years.\u201cI\u2019m sure cooperation, unity and strategic partnerships between Russia and Abkhazia will continue to strengthen,\u201d Putin said. Abkhazia\u2019s president, Raul Khadzhimba, added: \u201cTies with Russia offer us full security guarantees.\u201dThe move comes seven months after Putin annexed Crimea and launched a covert military invasion of eastern Ukraine. It will raise fears that Putin\u2019s expansionist project \u2013 he has promised to \u201cdefend\u201d ethnic Russians who live outside the borders of the Russian Federation \u2013 is a work in progress.Russia has based troops in Abkhazia for more than two decades, ever since the micro-republic broke away from Georgia in 1992-93 in a bloody separatist war. In 2008, Georgia\u2019s president, Mikheil Saakashvili, launched an ill-fated attempt to grab back Georgia\u2019s other rebel territory of South Ossetia. Russia responded with a full-scale military invasion of Georgia. It later recognised both Abkhazia and South Ossetia as independent states.The latest treaty appears to be Putin\u2019s riposte to a cooperation deal signed earlier this summer between Georgia and the EU. Moscow\u2019s counter-deal envisages that Abkhaz pensions and social benefits will rise to the same level as Russia\u2019s. It also increases Russia\u2019s control of the Black Sea region, which has long been of strategic importance to Moscow. Putin justified his land-grab of Crimea by saying this would prevent Nato warships developing bases on the peninsula, which is home to Russia\u2019s Black Sea fleet.Georgia\u2019s foreign ministry denounced the new agreement as a \u201cstep toward the de facto annexation\u201d of Abkhazia. Nato\u2019s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, condemned the treaty and said the alliance strongly supported Georgia\u2019s sovereignty.\u201cThis so-called treaty does not contribute to a peaceful and lasting settlement of the situation in Georgia,\u201d Stoltenberg said. He added: \u201cOn the contrary, it violates Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and blatantly contradicts the principles of international law, OSCE [Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe] principles and Russia\u2019s international commitments.\u201dThe EU\u2019s foreign policy chief, Federica Mogherini, said the deal damaged attempts to stabilise regional security.The US also said it would not recognise Russia\u2019s move and expressed continued support for Georgia\u2019s territorial integrity.\u201cThe United States will not recognise the legitimacy of any so-called \u2018treaty\u2019 between Georgia\u2019s Abkhazia region and the Russian Federation,\u201d the US. state department said.Abkhazia\u2019s former leader, Alexander Ankvab, was forced to step down earlier this year under pressure from protesters who reportedly were encouraged by the Kremlin. Khadzhimba, a former Soviet KGB officer, was elected president in an early vote in August that Georgia rejected as illegal.Unlike Ankvab, who had resisted Moscow\u2019s push to let Russians buy assets in Abkhazia, Khadzhimba has appeared more eager to listen to Russia\u2019s demands. Wealthy Russians have bought large chunks of land and property in Abkhazia, which was a popular holiday resort in Soviet times both for members of the politburo and for ordinary citizens.In Georgia\u2019s capital, Tbilisi, 30,000 opposition protesters demonstrated earlier this month against an earlier draft of the treaty. The ruling Georgian Dream bloc led by Russia-friendly billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, which unseated Saakashvili\u2019s party in the 2012 vote, has sought to repair ties with Moscow. But while economic relations have improved, political ties have remained frozen because of Moscow\u2019s refusal to compromise on the status of Georgia\u2019s separatist regions.Saakashvili\u2019s United National Movement party has accused the Georgian government of kowtowing to Moscow.\u201cThe Georgian government has done practically nothing,\u201d said the party leader, David Bakradze. He urged the government to join western sanctions against Russia and to opt out of political talks with Moscow.The deal with Abkhazia appears to reflect Moscow\u2019s concerns that Saakashvili\u2019s party could mount a political comeback and push for stronger ties with the west. The agreement, posted on the Kremlin website, envisages a joint defence and security space, and stipulates Russian \u201cprotection of the state border of the Republic of Abkhazia with Georgia\u201d.", "tags": ["Georgia", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "World news"], "title": "Georgia angered by Russia-Abkhazia military agreement"},{"date": "2014-11-16T00:08:03Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The steady advance of Russian tanks, artillery and troops into the rebel-held Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, documented last week by Nato and independent international observers, is an alarming reminder that the crisis that followed last March\u2019s annexation of Crimea is far from over. As was the case in August, when the arrival of Russian reinforcements presaged renewed fighting between the all-but-defeated separatists and government forces, Moscow flatly denies involvement. If Russian soldiers are present in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, it must be because they are there on holiday, the Kremlin suggests. Such risible mendacity is a measure of the vast contempt in which Russia\u2019s president, Vladimir Putin, holds last September\u2019s Minsk ceasefire agreement, the democratically elected government in Kiev and the international community as a whole.As ever, Russia\u2019s intentions in Ukraine are unclear. The troop movements, possibly including Chechen and Cossack mercenaries, may simply be an attempt to bolster the separatists who do not have the numbers or the weaponry to resist Kiev\u2019s will indefinitely. Or they may be part of a wider effort to underpin the independence of the Donbas, following recent separatist victories in rigged elections that all but Moscow deemed illegitimate. Some analysts fear Putin, pursuing his dangerous fantasy of a restored Russian imperium, harbours longer-term plans to turn eastern Ukraine into a permanent, militarised bridgehead or statelet \u2013 a sort of modern Sparta \u2013 from which to project an ongoing campaign of destabilisation against Ukraine and its pro-western leadership.Whatever he is up to, the fact that all this was happening at the very moment when Putin was meeting Barack Obama, David Cameron and other world leaders at this weekend\u2019s G20 summit in Brisbane is little short of incredible. Since Putin began illegally seizing Ukrainian territory, the international community has imposed extensive sanctions in a bid to stop him. But numerous attempts to engage him diplomatically and personally, not least by Obama and Germany\u2019s chancellor, Angela Merkel, have all failed miserably. Putin\u2019s rejection of such entreaties, fortified by his perception of western weakness, his grievances with the US, and his apparently immeasurable contempt for his critics, seems invincible. To his credit, Cameron did not mince words during \u201crobust\u201d bilateral talks with Putin. His message that there cannot be business as usual as long as Russia\u2019s Ukraine intervention continues is wholly right. Putin appeared in no mood to listen. But his decision to leave the summit early, while suggesting continuing recalcitrance, may also reflect his surprise, even shock, at the fierce criticism directed at him there. This might just have some beneficial effect in the longer run.It is not just Ukraine. The pattern of accelerating Russian confrontationalism abroad and authoritarianism at home, evident since Putin first took power as prime minister in 1999, is unmistakable. As a report published last week by the European Leadership Network demonstrated, close military encounters between Russia and the west are now back at cold war levels, with all the associated dangers that entails. Russia has resumed long-range patrols by nuclear-capable bombers, discontinued in 1992, to destinations as distant and provocative as the Gulf of Mexico. Russian warships showed up last week in international waters off Australia, crudely advertising Putin\u2019s arrival in Brisbane.Avid for its resources and oblivious to the environmental consequences, Moscow plans new military bases and operations across the Arctic. Meanwhile, figures as diverse as Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet leader, and Sauli Niinist\u00f6, Finland\u2019s president, have warned that the world is on the brink of a new cold war. In the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, across eastern Europe, in Georgia and Moldova and throughout Scandinavia, concern is rising about renewed Russian aggression amid a flurry of maritime and airspace violations.Putin\u2019s disregard for international norms is mirrored at home by his disrespect for individual human and civil rights. Russia under Putin is a country where the rule of law and property rights are not guaranteed, where the police and judiciary lack independence, where the legislative process is wholly dominated by the executive, where the media and civil rights groups are co-opted or persecuted, and where brave individuals such as the Pussy Riot punk group or the investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya pay a terrible price for their defiance.At least the Soviet Union had a distinct ideology based on ideals, however deluded they proved to be. Putin\u2019s only principle seems to be national and personal aggrandisement. \u201cWe in the west need to reassess our relations with Russia,\u201d says Finland\u2019s prime minister, Alexander Stubb. \u201cWe have put in a lot of effort to try to integrate Russia into western institutions and we slightly idealistically believed that Russia could become a normal, liberal market democracy that relies on international institutions. It hasn\u2019t.\u201dIt is difficult to justify Putin\u2019s invitation to Brisbane, and other international forums such as last week\u2019s Apec summit in Beijing. It requires a pretence that his repeat acts of geopolitical hooliganism are somehow tolerable. They are not and he is not welcome (as the G7 grouping has previously ruled). Putin surely has no place in the high councils of an international system whose rules and values he so blatantly subverts. In short, it is time to end wishful thinking about a change of heart in Moscow, to stop pulling punches and to let Putin know that until Russia accepts the inviolable sovereignty of international law and the moral imperative of universal human rights, it will be an outcast among nations.The means of bringing Putin to heel, in Ukraine and elsewhere, are available. Russia\u2019s economy has been badly hit by sanctions, but their indirect effect has been even greater. Foreign investment has slumped as confidence crumbles. Russia\u2019s central bank recently downgraded its growth forecasts again and said capital flight was approaching record levels. Russia\u2019s currency, the rouble, has lost almost 30% of its value this year, prompting sharp price rises. Despite new oil and gas export deals with China, the regime is running on empty as international oil prices drop. And polls suggest most Russians do not believe Ukraine is worth fighting for.Putin is vulnerable. Increased financial pressure coupled with intensified diplomatic action and bolstered Nato support for European countries bordering Russia could convince Moscow that the costs of its antisocial behaviour are too high to bear. As for Putin, world leaders should stop treating him as if he were somehow one of them. Putin and Putinism are a throwback to a more polarised and aggressive era. He must not be allowed to drag the world back to the past.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "G20", "Ukraine", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "The Observer\u2019s view on Putin\u2019s Russia | Observer editorial"},{"date": "2014-11-11T19:23:43Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Fashion chain New Look is to focus on expanding in China and Poland but will pull out of Russia and Ukraine amid political instability in the region.Anders Kristiansen, New Look\u2019s chief executive, said he expected to complete the closure of 20 stores in Russia and six in Ukraine in the next few days.The decision to exit comes after New Look said in August that it had \u201cpaused\u201d expansion in Russia.\u201cWe took the decision four to six months ago when the political issues erupted. Since then the retail environment has been going through a tough period,\u201d Kristiansen said.He added that many other retailers were also \u201creally suffering\u201d in the region.\u201cWith the market uncertainty it didn\u2019t feel right and the other point is that we have got China performing really well, so why not channel money there,\u201d he said. Kristiansen said the exit from Russia did not mark a slowdown in international expansion plans. \u201cOur aim is to build a global brand and we continue to execute that strategy,\u201d he said.The retailer, which is in the process of selling its Mim chain in France, has also recently exited stores in Morocco and Thailand, and expects to have 20 stores in China by the end of its financial year in March. It already has about 30 sites lined up for next year.Strong sales in China helped offset a slowdown in sales in the UK amid unseasonably warm weather.Sales growth at established stores dropped from 9.1% in the three months to the end of July to just 2.4% in the following quarter. Total sales rose 4.7% to \u00a3753.2m and underlying profit rose 18.5% to \u00a370.9m in the six months to the end of September as the group reduced losses at Mim.\u201cThere are huge opportunities [in China]. The first step will be 300 stores and then we will go from there,\u201d said Kristiansen, who previously ran more than 6,000 stores in China for Danish brand Bestseller.Since he arrived at New Look last year, Kristiansen said he had tried to simplify its overseas business and focus on markets where it could find major expansion. He said the retailer expects to add four more stores in Poland by April on top of the 11 already in place. It is also opening concession outlets in Germany.Sales via the internet rose 36.4% in the six months to 27 September helped by strong sales via Asos as well as New Look\u2019s own website.", "tags": ["New Look", "Retail industry", "Business", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Ukraine", "China", "Asia Pacific", "Poland"], "title": "New Look quits Russia and Ukraine"},{"date": "2014-10-30T13:21:48Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s state funded news channel RT, formerly Russia Today, launches its dedicated UK news channel on Thursday, which aims to \u201cdissect the implications of major international developments for UK audiences\u201d. To mark its arrival, we look at back at some of its most memorable moments.In August 2013 journalist and foreign correspondent James Kirchick was invited on to RT to discuss Chelsea Manning\u2019s sentencing. He decided instead to use the opportunity to attack Russia\u2019s anti-gay laws: \u201cBeing here on a Kremlin-funded propaganda network, I\u2019m gonna wear my gay pride suspenders, and I\u2019m gonna speak out against the horrific anti-gay legislation that Vladimir Putin has signed into law, that was passed by the Russian Duma, that criminalises homosexual propaganda [and] that effectively makes it illegal to talk about homosexuality in public.\u201d The host of RT show Breaking the Set, Abby Martin, spoke out against the Russian invasion of Crimea in March this year: \u201cI can\u2019t say enough how strongly I am against any state intervention in a sovereign nation\u2019s affairs.\u201d She added: \u201cWhat Russia did is wrong. Military intervention is never the answer, and I will not sit here and apologise or defend military aggression.\u201dRT issued a statement saying, \u201cContrary to the popular opinion, RT doesn\u2019t beat its journalists into submission, and they are free to express their own opinions, not just in private but on the air.\u201d It added: \u201cIn her comment Ms Martin also noted that she does not possess a deep knowledge of reality of the situation in Crimea. As such we\u2019ll be sending her to Crimea to give her an opportunity to make up her own mind from the epicentre of the story.\u201d Martin did not go to Crimea.The next day RT anchor Liz Wahl quit live on air saying \u201cpersonally I can\u2019t be part of a network funded by the Russian government, that whitewashes the actions of Putin. I\u2019m proud to be an American and believe in disseminating the truth and that is why, after this news cast, I\u2019m resigning.\u201d RT responded with a statement: \u201cWhen a journalist disagrees with the editorial position of his or her organisation, the usual course of action is to address those grievances with the editor, and, if they cannot be resolved, to quit like a professional. But when someone makes a big public show of a personal decision, it is nothing more than a self-promotional stunt.\u201d But say what you will about RT, it does have some very compelling political pundits, like actor Steven Seagal, for example, who offered viewers his expertise on the Ukraine situation: \u201cOn supposedly quote unquote respectable news channels, they keep saying \u2018just like when Russia attacked Georgia\u2026\u2019 Really? How about telling the truth? Didn\u2019t Georgia attack Russia, and didn\u2019t Russia retaliate? Maybe people should either do their homework, or, you know, just stop saying what they\u2019re told to say.\u201dSeagal has described Putin as \u201cone of the greatest world leaders, if not the greatest world leader, alive today.\u201d Bradford MP George Galloway is also a regular on the channel and earned \u00a325,600 in the first half of this year for appearances on RT. Here he argues that \u201cRussia has every right, indeed, obligation, to act in defence of its compatriots, its citizens, its economic and military assets which it has on the territory of the Ukraine by agreement and by treaty.\u201d He says the EU should not \u201cpoke the bear with a stick\u201d, the bear being Russia. And to finish off, here\u2019s Putin singing the Fats Domino classic Blueberry Hill at a charity dinner in 2010. ", "tags": ["TV news", "Television & radio", "Russia", "UK news", "Television industry", "The news on TV", "Media", "US news", "World news", "Europe", "Television", "Russia Today"], "title": "RT: Russia Today's six most memorable moments"},{"date": "2014-12-24T13:04:34Z", "country": "russia", "content": "\n\n1.04pm GMT\n13:04\n\nIt is a quiet day on the bourses in continental Europe with markets barely moving. France\u2019s main market dropped after the government revealed that unemployment had hit a record high.That is all from the business live blog. We will be back next week. Merry Christmas to all our readers.\n\n12.59pm GMT\n12:59\n\nNews flash from Reuters:Russia is holding talks with international ratings agencies about the situation in the Russian economy.\n\n12.45pm GMT\n12:45\n\nThe FTSE100 has closed. On a day of thin trading, when many traders were out the office, the UK index of leading shares finished up 0.18%.Updated\nat 12.45pm GMT\n\n\n12.40pm GMT\n12:40\n\nChristmas Day used to be the only time of year when no one could buy anything.Not any more.This year 8 million people are expected to be distracted from turkey and TV by bargain-hunting on their smartphones and tablets, writes Guardian retail reporter Sarah Butler.As an increasing number of retailers begin their end of year sales online on Christmas Eve, shoppers are expected to spend 25% more than last year on Christmas Day with most logging on at midday according to online retailing body imrg and research firm Experian.Christmas Day shopping has become increasingly popular over the past few years with more than half of consumers expected to log on to at least browse, according to card provider Barclaycard.Growth is being driven by a rise in the popularity of tablet computers, which make shopping from the sofa an attractive pastime, while the likes of Marks & Spencer, Boots and Currys all start their sales online on Christmas Eve and Amazon launches its post-Christmas discounts just after the Queen\u2019s speech at 4pm.Here is the full story.\n\n12.28pm GMT\n12:28\n\nUnemployment in France has hit a record high, according to the latest official data published today.The number of job seekers reached record levels in November, with 3.488m people claiming out-of-work benefits.The figures showed a rise of 27,400 people on the jobless queue compared to the previous month, up 0.8% from October. Unemployment has risen 5.8% over the last year, despite promises by the government to get more people into work.In an interview last month, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande said he would not stand again for the French presidency in 2017 if he had not managed to cut unemployment.\n\n11.43am GMT\n11:43\n\nShares in BP have edged up 0.5% today, after reports that the oil company is close to a deal with its Russian partner Rosneft to develop oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP has a 20% stake in Rosneft and has continued to make plans with the Kremlin- controlled firm despite western sanctions.The latest deal was reported by the Russian daily Kommersant, which says that Rosneft has signed a \u201cstrategic partnership\u201d with BP to explore oil fields in eastern Siberia.BP will pay around $700-$800m to get a 20% stake in the Tass Yuriakh field in eastern Siberia, estimated to contain 1 bn barrels of reserves. So far, the two sides have only initialled a preliminary deal, but plan to seal the deal in 2015.BP and Rosneft have declined to comment.BP has insisted it will still do business in Russia, despite warning investors it could be damaged by the fallout from western sanctions.\n\n11.16am GMT\n11:16\n\nHolger Zschaepitz, a senior editor at Die Welt, points out that many investors already see Russian bonds as junk.#Russia bond market unchg despite S&P junk warning. 10yr yield stays at 13.17% as markets have treated Russia as junk for several weeks.\n\n11.09am GMT\n11:09\n\nHoward Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS, is not slackening his output when it comes to analysing the latest batch of UK productivity figures.Productivity is rising, but the glass looks half-empty.Some modest festive cheer for the UK economy, with labour productivity showing some welcome and much-needed improvement in the third quarter. Nevertheless, productivity currently remains limited compared to pre-crisis levels and there is still considerable uncertainty as to how much of this is due to structural factors. How much productivity improves going forward will be a critical factor in how soon and how far the Bank of England raises interest rates.  The extent to which the weakness in the UK\u2019s productivity has been structural rather than cyclical has vital implications for the economy\u2019s growth potential and for policy. If productivity fails to pick up appreciably over the coming quarters, it indicates that the economy has less potential to grow without generating inflationary pressures and that interest rates will likely need to rise at a faster rate than currently envisaged. My emphasis He identifies four factors about the recession and recovery that could do lasting damage to UK productivity.\n\n10.54am GMT\n10:54\n\nThe jolly number crunchers at the Office for National Statistics have released data showing who will spend Christmas Day at work.Here are the stats courtesy of this excellent blog from Guardian\u2019s data team.Most of the people working at Christmas are carers and nurses, with over a quarter of a million people in these professions working on 25 December.The big unanswered question: why do 51% of the clergy get a day off on Christmas?\n\n10.33am GMT\n10:33\n\nHere is the UK\u2019s productivity story in graphs.Productivity has improved but not made up ground lost during the economic crisis.London and the south east has its own economy, operating in a very different way from the rest of the country.\n\n10.12am GMT\n10:12\n\nUK labour productivity has improved, but remains below its pre-crisis peak.Worker productivity increased by 0.6% in the third quarter of 2014 compared with the previous quarter, according to data released by the Office for National Statistics. It was 0.3% higher than 2013, but 2% below where it was before the 2008 economic crash.Here are the headlines from the ONS release:Updated\nat 10.13am GMT\n", "tags": ["Russia", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Shopping trips", "Retail industry", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Russia on the verge of junk rating over weak economy - business live"},{"date": "2014-12-26T17:06:47Z", "country": "russia", "content": "He was Russia\u2019s richest man, and then its most high-profile prisoner. Now, a year after Vladimir Putin pardoned him and released him from jail, Mikhail Khodorkovsky is living in Zurich and plotting the downfall of the man who put him behind bars for a decade.\u201cI will work to make sure the regime in Russia changes,\u201d he says. \u201cThe question is: am I prepared to go all the way? And yes, I am prepared to go all the way.\u201dThe Guardian\u2019s meeting with Khodorkovsky takes place in a handsome but functional five-story building in central Zurich which serves as his office. He appears with a big pair of headphones round his neck and a black rucksack over his shoulders. The top-floor views of the River Limmat and the spires of central Zurich are a far cry from what he had to get used to for a decade.\u201cWhen I look back now, I can\u2019t believe that a year ago I was in [prison] and didn\u2019t think I\u2019d ever be set free,\u201d he says, pausing to eat slices of dried banana from a bowl on the table. \u201cI thought there would be a third case.\u201dPutin announced that he planned to free Khodorkovsky on the sidelines of his marathon pre-Christmas press conference last December. It came as a surprise: there had been murmurings that a third criminal case was being prepared in order to keep the former oligarch locked up. But, beneath a cloak of secrecy, Khodorkovsky was whisked from his prison cell that night and put on a plane to St Petersburg, where he switched planes on the tarmac to a waiting aircraft that flew him to Berlin.Khodorkovksy says he promised Putin three things in a handwritten letter asking to be freed so he could see his mother, who was terminally ill: that he would leave Russia to spend time with his family, would stay away from politics, and would not attempt to win back his shares in Yukos \u2013 his dismantled oil company \u2013 or get involved in any court cases.Until late in the summer, when his mother died, he was indeed silent, but now he has set up a foundation called Open Russia and has been making political statements.\u201cIt\u2019s true I don\u2019t want to get involved in politics,\u201d he claims. \u201cI want to support people who share my values, and that\u2019s what I\u2019m doing. In Russia, they call that politics, OK, well fine,\u201d he says. He claims that by \u201cchanging the regime\u201d he does not necessarily mean Putin \u2013 in the unlikely event that Putin decided tomorrow he wanted to completely change his style of rule, Khodorkovsky says he would be happy to work with him. He also insists he personally has no burning desire to be president: \u201cI can\u2019t really say that I am really interested in doing that, but if people ask me, then yeah, OK, I\u2019m ready.\u201dBut he surely knows that suggesting, however obliquely, that he might like to be president is not going to go down well with Putin. The last time Khodorkovsky dabbled in politics, he was arrested and spent the next 10 years in prison. While there is no doubt that most of the people who got rich in 1990s Russia committed a multitude of sins, there was also little doubt that the proceedings against Khodorkovsky were political. Is he really ready to take on the Kremlin again?His office in Zurich is just a few blocks from the house where Vladimir Lenin lived for a year until April 1917. The Bolsheviks at the time were a marginal group with little support in Russia, and Lenin\u2019s pontificating from Switzerland seemed something of an irrelevance. Within a few months of being dispatched to Russia by train, however, Lenin had deposed the provisional government and become the new leader of Russia.In modern times, however, the character with most parallels to Khodorkovsky is Boris Berezovsky. Both men grew fabulously wealthy through the dubious and unjust privatisation process in the 1990s, and both were close to the Kremlin. Berezovsky, who was Putin\u2019s political mentor, fell out with his prot\u00e9g\u00e9 and fled to London, where he died in an apparent suicide in 2013.\u201cTo turn into someone like Berezovsky, as well as the physical circumstances you also need to have the internal predisposition to this kind of situation. He was a real opportunist, whereas I am more of a pragmatist. I am used to running businesses. I am used to setting realistic goals and achieving them. Sometimes they are major goals, sometimes minor ones, and sometimes achieving them takes longer than I thought. But they are always pragmatic goals, pragmatic steps and carefully planned movement towards the goal.\u201dTo this end, Khodorkovsky says he spent most of his time in prison thinking about what Russia should look like after Putin.\u201cIt was very difficult over 10 years to take part in all these processes with predetermined results, in all these little insults, which happened later on in the camps. So I gave myself intellectual exercises, and set to work thinking about what mechanism there should be for the transition period. Where we need to get to is clear enough: a state governed by the rule of law. Full stop.\u201dOn the specifics, however, he is vague. How a new government would come into place \u2013 through revolution or negotiation \u2013 he declines to say. Whether there should be criminal prosecution for current regime figures, he also says should be decided later.\u201cWe will discuss this a lot, we have time. I think there will be a lot of discussion.\u201dHe talks about a transition period of two or three years in which he would be prepared to be president, but again, the mechanics of this are vague.Even in sleepy Zurich, the Kremlin is never far away. The Russian special services make it clear they are monitoring Khodorkovsky\u2019s communications, he says: if he asks someone to take a document to Moscow, that person will stopped at customs and subjected to a search. At his public events, there are often uninvited guests.\u201cYou can tell them by the questions. Sometimes they introduce themselves, sometimes they don\u2019t. Sometimes the local guys tell me: \u2018Ah, your lot have come again\u2019. They know everyone here, it\u2019s a small country.\u201dHe is not visibly followed, he says, but is aware of the risks of vocal opposition: \u201cI understand perfectly well that if Putin gives the order to have me removed, I will be removed. What else is there to say? But given I\u2019m his personal opponent, it would be a very public gesture. I don\u2019t know how much that would stop him, when you think about what has happened in Ukraine. But let\u2019s hope that some kind of rules of the game remain in force.\u201dKhodorkovsky speaks with quiet determination, but also a studied indifference. He says he has neither the time, nor the desire to continue his prison diaries, and insists he has no dreams, no flashbacks to his time in jail. \u201cI\u2019m completely calm. It happened, so, whatever. Time to move on.\u201dIt is nice to eat good food, he says, but insists he was not that bothered by prison fare. \u201cI\u2019m a pretty easy-going person. Whatever you feed me, I\u2019m fine. So I didn\u2019t really suffer from prison food, although really you could only call it \u2018food\u2019 in the sense that it had calories in it.\u201dAs for things which surprised him when he emerged from the electronics-free vacuum that is Russian prison, Khodorkovsky says most things he understood, but after a decade locked up, the power of social media had been the biggest shock.\u201cI read 200 pages a day, so I had a theoretical understanding of everything that was happening, even of iPhones. The phenomenon of social media came as a surprise to me, though. I knew that these things exists, but to understand the influence it has had on humankind, you have to really feel that.\u201dHe claims that one advantage he has gained from his time in prison is patience.\u201cPrison taught me that time does not have as much significance as we think. Just because something didn\u2019t happen today doesn\u2019t mean it won\u2019t happen tomorrow,\u201d he says. \u201cThere is no rush. Ten years is not a long time. For me, 2024 is not a long time away. There is a plan for these years. And if everything will happen the right way, I will implement it.\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Mikhail Khodorkovsky on life after prison and Russia after Putin"},{"date": "2014-12-17T18:13:00Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Cometh the hour, cometh the man. With the Russian economy suffering from its worst week in recent history, one of the country\u2019s newest citizens, French actor G\u00e9rard Depardieu, chose the moment to launch a luxury watch collection.The collection, designed by Swiss watchmaker Custos, is named \u201cProud to be Russian\u201d. The timepieces feature a Russian double-headed eagle on the face, with gold trim, and prices start at 15,000 Swiss francs (about \u00a310,000). For Russians, the price will seem significantly more expensive given the dramatic drop in the rouble this year. But at the launch, a cheerful Depardieu told them not to worry.\u201cLuxury doesn\u2019t depend on the rouble, it depends on the spiritual strength of Russians and I think our spiritual strength will win out and everything will be fine, as long as we are left in peace,\u201d he said.Depardieu suggested the financial crisis started \u201cafter a number of American banks went bankrupt\u201d and said he would watch Vladimir Putin\u2019s press conference on Thursday to hear what the Russian president had to say. Putin personally presented Depardieu with his Russian passport in January last year.Depardieu has been an outspoken supporter of Putin and on Wednesdayyesterday said western sanctions against Russia over the annexation of Crimea and the war in east Ukraine were absurd.\u201cIt\u2019s funny to put sanctions on Russia because in Europe nobody can live without Russia. People there don\u2019t understand what\u2019s happening between Russia and Ukraine,\u201d he said.The French-Russian actor was introduced at the watch launch, held in a five-star hotel next to Red Square, as \u201cwatch collector, living legend and free spirit G\u00e9rard Depardieu\u201d.In a promotional video for the event, a wide-eyed Depardieu slammed the table with his fist as he shouted out: \u201cI am proud to be Russian\u201d in heavily accented Russian.The actor spoke French at the launch, however. He struggled to find the phrase for \u201cgood evening\u201d in Russian, fumbling through incorrect versions before muttering: \u201cJe ne sais quoi, bon soir\u201d.Depardieu was given Russian citizenship after complaining about the high level of taxes in Europe. He later officially registered his residence in Mordovia, a region largely known for its system of prison camps, though he does not spend much time there. He has also struck up a friendship with Chechnya\u2019s ruthless leader Ramzan Kadyrov, after shooting a film with Elizabeth Hurley in the region last year.Depardieu has also made the headlines for frequent drunken behaviour. In a recent interview he said he sometimes drinks up to 14 bottles of wine a day.\u201cI have fallen off my motorbike many times and broken many watches,\u201d said the actor at Wednesday\u2019s launch. \u201cAnd many motorbikes. I don\u2019t really care that much about watches. But then you can\u2019t leave your watches in a safe all the time.\u201d", "tags": ["G\u00e9rard Depardieu", "Russia", "Rouble", "Europe", "World news", "Film", "Global economy", "Currencies", "Business"], "title": "G\u00e9rard Depardieu launches luxury watch in Russia amid economic turmoil"},{"date": "2014-12-15T16:05:56Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Gay people in Russia are being subjected to increasing amounts of harassment and violence in their everyday lives, according to a report suggesting that intolerance has risen since a controversial law banning \u201chomosexual propaganda\u201d was passed last year.\u201cThe law effectively legalised discrimination against LGBT people and cast them as second-class citizens,\u201d wrote Human Rights Watch in the report, published on Monday. \u201cRussian authorities have failed in their obligation to prevent and prosecute homophobic violence.\u201dThe report focused on the victims of vigilante groups that have sprung up recently, who often lure gay men into online traps and then film their humiliation.\u201cThey forced me to stand in the middle of the circle they formed around me. They asked me questions about my sex life and sexual preferences, and then they forced me to yell that I was a paedophile and gay,\u201d said one man quoted in the report, who asked to protect his identity.\u201cThey called themselves \u2018Athletes against Paedophiles\u2019 and told me: \u2018We will catch all of you and we will teach you how to live.\u2019 It was around 5pm, so there were a lot of people in the shopping mall, shopping and dining. But no one stopped them, no one interfered.\u201dThe report also documented violent incidents, many of which were not reported to police out of fear.One of the main problems is that Russian authorities remain reluctant to classify homophobic attacks as hate crimes. Although Russia does have laws on hate crimes, they tend to be used for more political purposes, such as the sentences handed down to the Pussy Riot group, who were accused of hooliganism motivated by hatred of a religious group for dancing in a church.When anti-gay attacks take place, however, the authorities tend not to consider them as motivated by hatred, instead qualifying them as hooliganism or assault.\u201cViolence experienced by LGBT people in Russia is unmistakably motivated by homophobia, but the authorities deliberately ignore that these are hate crimes and fail to protect victims,\u201d said Tanya Cooper, Russia researcher at Human Rights Watch. \u201cAuthorities should effectively prosecute homophobic violence, and the authorities should stop engaging in and tolerating anti-LGBT discrimination.\u201dThe release of the report came as one of the country\u2019s most notorious anti-gay crusaders, the St Petersburg politician Vitaly Milonov, again made headlines as he spearheaded a raid of a gay club over the weekend.Milonov arrived at the venue, which was hosting a fetish party, with a squad of riot police, barged in and began checking the documents of all those present, according to local news reports.\u201cWe found around 20 teenagers there who were practically having sex on the stage,\u201d Milonov told a local news agency. He said the nightclub was full of \u201cperverts and paedophiles\u201d and called for it to be shut down. Despite the fact that Milonov appeared to be commanding a group of police in raiding the club, the party continued after they left.", "tags": ["Russia", "LGBT rights", "Europe", "World news", "Human rights", "Law"], "title": "Russia failing to prevent homophobic violence, says Human Rights Watch"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-03-10T11:10:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, says pro-Russia rebels have withdrawn a significant amount of weaponry from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine, three weeks after a ceasefire deal was struck.Attacks have fallen significantly, but accusations of continued violence on both sides show the fragility of the peace accord agreed in Minsk last month, which calls for the withdrawal of heavy weapons from frontlines.\u201cThere is a ceasefire, or there isn\u2019t. It depends on how you look at it, Poroshenko said in a televised interview. \u201cWe can say that we managed to halt the offensive drive of the aggressor.\u201d\u201cUkraine has withdrawn the lion\u2019s share of its rocket and heavy artillery systems. The Russian-backed fighters have also withdrawn a significant amount.\u201dWhile the Minsk agreements have been broadly observed along the frontlines in the past two weeks, Kiev has accused the rebels of continuing to fire on government positions and using the truce to regroup and rearm for a further offensive, a charge the rebels deny.Poroshenko said 64 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the ceasefire was meant to come into force on 15 February. Nearly 6,000 people have been killed since the conflict between government troops and separatists erupted last April, the UN estimates.Underlining continued tensions over the truce, Ukraine accused pro-Russia separatists on Monday of using mortars and a tank to fire on government positions near the eastern port of Mariupol in clashes that lasted several hours. Related: Frontline Ukraine: 'How Europe failed to slay the demons of war' The militants fired on Ukraine\u2019s positions and were attempting to \u201cforce our contingents from Shyrokyne\u201d, a village about 10km (six miles) east of Mariupol on the Azov Sea coast, the headquarters of the army\u2019s operations in the east said in a Facebook post.The claims could not be immediately confirmed but would constitute a serious violation of the peace deal signed in the Belarus capital, Minsk.Mariupol, a steel-making city of 500,000, is the biggest urban centre in the conflict zone still controlled by Kiev. The frontline runs through Shyrokyne.Many Ukrainians fear that any new offensive by the rebels would target Mariupol because of its strategic location and economic importance. The port was hit by a rocket attack in January that killed at least 30 civilians.Four Ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the latest clashes, according to military spokesman Oleg Sushinky.International observers trying to monitor the ceasefire and weapons withdrawal have repeatedly complained that rebels are denying them access to outlying areas of Mariupol.Meanwhile, Nato forces are preparing for a major exercise in the Baltics, where Russia\u2019s involvement in the Ukraine war has jangled nerves.US military officials said that deployment of some 3,000 troops had begun for the three-month Operation Atlantic Resolve. The exercise will see Nato forces working alongside their allies in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - former Soviet republics that are now members of the western alliance.The United States also said on Monday that it had delivered more than 100 pieces of heavy military equipment to the Baltic states.The deliveries are intended to \u201cdemonstrate resolve to President (Vladimir) Putin and Russia that collectively we can come together\u201d, US Major General John R O\u2019Connor told AFP as he oversaw the delivery of the equipment in the port of Riga.According to Nato, Russia has used its annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea province to significantly boost its military presence in the region.\u201cWhat we\u2019ve seen is easy to describe as the militarisation of Crimea,\u201d the alliance\u2019s top commander for Europe, General Philip Breedlove, said in an interview with Ukrainian channel 1+1.\u201cThey\u2019ve brought an air capability, they\u2019ve increased their capability to project sea power from there,\u201d he said.\u201cCrimea has become very much a power projection platform,\u201d he said in an interview broadcast in Ukraine on Sunday evening.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Petro Poroshenko", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pro-Russia fighters have withdrawn weapons, says Ukraine president"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-03-10T11:10:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, says pro-Russia rebels have withdrawn a significant amount of weaponry from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine, three weeks after a ceasefire deal was struck.Attacks have fallen significantly, but accusations of continued violence on both sides show the fragility of the peace accord agreed in Minsk last month, which calls for the withdrawal of heavy weapons from frontlines.\u201cThere is a ceasefire, or there isn\u2019t. It depends on how you look at it, Poroshenko said in a televised interview. \u201cWe can say that we managed to halt the offensive drive of the aggressor.\u201d\u201cUkraine has withdrawn the lion\u2019s share of its rocket and heavy artillery systems. The Russian-backed fighters have also withdrawn a significant amount.\u201dWhile the Minsk agreements have been broadly observed along the frontlines in the past two weeks, Kiev has accused the rebels of continuing to fire on government positions and using the truce to regroup and rearm for a further offensive, a charge the rebels deny.Poroshenko said 64 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the ceasefire was meant to come into force on 15 February. Nearly 6,000 people have been killed since the conflict between government troops and separatists erupted last April, the UN estimates.Underlining continued tensions over the truce, Ukraine accused pro-Russia separatists on Monday of using mortars and a tank to fire on government positions near the eastern port of Mariupol in clashes that lasted several hours. Related: Frontline Ukraine: 'How Europe failed to slay the demons of war' The militants fired on Ukraine\u2019s positions and were attempting to \u201cforce our contingents from Shyrokyne\u201d, a village about 10km (six miles) east of Mariupol on the Azov Sea coast, the headquarters of the army\u2019s operations in the east said in a Facebook post.The claims could not be immediately confirmed but would constitute a serious violation of the peace deal signed in the Belarus capital, Minsk.Mariupol, a steel-making city of 500,000, is the biggest urban centre in the conflict zone still controlled by Kiev. The frontline runs through Shyrokyne.Many Ukrainians fear that any new offensive by the rebels would target Mariupol because of its strategic location and economic importance. The port was hit by a rocket attack in January that killed at least 30 civilians.Four Ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the latest clashes, according to military spokesman Oleg Sushinky.International observers trying to monitor the ceasefire and weapons withdrawal have repeatedly complained that rebels are denying them access to outlying areas of Mariupol.Meanwhile, Nato forces are preparing for a major exercise in the Baltics, where Russia\u2019s involvement in the Ukraine war has jangled nerves.US military officials said that deployment of some 3,000 troops had begun for the three-month Operation Atlantic Resolve. The exercise will see Nato forces working alongside their allies in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - former Soviet republics that are now members of the western alliance.The United States also said on Monday that it had delivered more than 100 pieces of heavy military equipment to the Baltic states.The deliveries are intended to \u201cdemonstrate resolve to President (Vladimir) Putin and Russia that collectively we can come together\u201d, US Major General John R O\u2019Connor told AFP as he oversaw the delivery of the equipment in the port of Riga.According to Nato, Russia has used its annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea province to significantly boost its military presence in the region.\u201cWhat we\u2019ve seen is easy to describe as the militarisation of Crimea,\u201d the alliance\u2019s top commander for Europe, General Philip Breedlove, said in an interview with Ukrainian channel 1+1.\u201cThey\u2019ve brought an air capability, they\u2019ve increased their capability to project sea power from there,\u201d he said.\u201cCrimea has become very much a power projection platform,\u201d he said in an interview broadcast in Ukraine on Sunday evening.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Petro Poroshenko", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pro-Russia fighters have withdrawn weapons, says Ukraine president"},{"date": "2015-03-14T12:18:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ikea is halting the publication of its online magazine in Russia because it fears violating the country\u2019s homophobic law banning the promotion of same-sex relationships.The world\u2019s largest furniture retailer said its magazine Ikea Family Live \u201cdemonstrates various aspects of home life regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation\u201d.In a Russian language statement, the Swedish furniture store said \u201cwe understand that some publications in our magazine can be considered as propaganda\u201d, adding it had decided to stop the publication of the magazine in Russia. The law passed in 2013 bans the promotion of \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d to people under the age of 18.", "tags": ["Ikea", "LGBT rights", "Russia", "Business", "Europe", "Retail industry", "World news"], "title": "Ikea pulls magazine from Russia over 'gay propaganda' law"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-03-10T11:10:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, says pro-Russia rebels have withdrawn a significant amount of weaponry from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine, three weeks after a ceasefire deal was struck.Attacks have fallen significantly, but accusations of continued violence on both sides show the fragility of the peace accord agreed in Minsk last month, which calls for the withdrawal of heavy weapons from frontlines.\u201cThere is a ceasefire, or there isn\u2019t. It depends on how you look at it, Poroshenko said in a televised interview. \u201cWe can say that we managed to halt the offensive drive of the aggressor.\u201d\u201cUkraine has withdrawn the lion\u2019s share of its rocket and heavy artillery systems. The Russian-backed fighters have also withdrawn a significant amount.\u201dWhile the Minsk agreements have been broadly observed along the frontlines in the past two weeks, Kiev has accused the rebels of continuing to fire on government positions and using the truce to regroup and rearm for a further offensive, a charge the rebels deny.Poroshenko said 64 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the ceasefire was meant to come into force on 15 February. Nearly 6,000 people have been killed since the conflict between government troops and separatists erupted last April, the UN estimates.Underlining continued tensions over the truce, Ukraine accused pro-Russia separatists on Monday of using mortars and a tank to fire on government positions near the eastern port of Mariupol in clashes that lasted several hours. Related: Frontline Ukraine: 'How Europe failed to slay the demons of war' The militants fired on Ukraine\u2019s positions and were attempting to \u201cforce our contingents from Shyrokyne\u201d, a village about 10km (six miles) east of Mariupol on the Azov Sea coast, the headquarters of the army\u2019s operations in the east said in a Facebook post.The claims could not be immediately confirmed but would constitute a serious violation of the peace deal signed in the Belarus capital, Minsk.Mariupol, a steel-making city of 500,000, is the biggest urban centre in the conflict zone still controlled by Kiev. The frontline runs through Shyrokyne.Many Ukrainians fear that any new offensive by the rebels would target Mariupol because of its strategic location and economic importance. The port was hit by a rocket attack in January that killed at least 30 civilians.Four Ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the latest clashes, according to military spokesman Oleg Sushinky.International observers trying to monitor the ceasefire and weapons withdrawal have repeatedly complained that rebels are denying them access to outlying areas of Mariupol.Meanwhile, Nato forces are preparing for a major exercise in the Baltics, where Russia\u2019s involvement in the Ukraine war has jangled nerves.US military officials said that deployment of some 3,000 troops had begun for the three-month Operation Atlantic Resolve. The exercise will see Nato forces working alongside their allies in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - former Soviet republics that are now members of the western alliance.The United States also said on Monday that it had delivered more than 100 pieces of heavy military equipment to the Baltic states.The deliveries are intended to \u201cdemonstrate resolve to President (Vladimir) Putin and Russia that collectively we can come together\u201d, US Major General John R O\u2019Connor told AFP as he oversaw the delivery of the equipment in the port of Riga.According to Nato, Russia has used its annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea province to significantly boost its military presence in the region.\u201cWhat we\u2019ve seen is easy to describe as the militarisation of Crimea,\u201d the alliance\u2019s top commander for Europe, General Philip Breedlove, said in an interview with Ukrainian channel 1+1.\u201cThey\u2019ve brought an air capability, they\u2019ve increased their capability to project sea power from there,\u201d he said.\u201cCrimea has become very much a power projection platform,\u201d he said in an interview broadcast in Ukraine on Sunday evening.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Petro Poroshenko", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pro-Russia fighters have withdrawn weapons, says Ukraine president"},{"date": "2015-03-14T12:18:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ikea is halting the publication of its online magazine in Russia because it fears violating the country\u2019s homophobic law banning the promotion of same-sex relationships.The world\u2019s largest furniture retailer said its magazine Ikea Family Live \u201cdemonstrates various aspects of home life regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation\u201d.In a Russian language statement, the Swedish furniture store said \u201cwe understand that some publications in our magazine can be considered as propaganda\u201d, adding it had decided to stop the publication of the magazine in Russia. The law passed in 2013 bans the promotion of \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d to people under the age of 18.", "tags": ["Ikea", "LGBT rights", "Russia", "Business", "Europe", "Retail industry", "World news"], "title": "Ikea pulls magazine from Russia over 'gay propaganda' law"},{"date": "2015-03-08T07:34:19Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have detained two men in connection with the murder of the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov.The pair were named as Anzor Gubashev and Zaur Dadayev, both from the North Caucasus, a volatile region of southern Russia plagued by insurgency. One of the men was a former police officer, according to Russian news agencies on Sunday.Alexander Bortnikov, head of Russia\u2019s federal security service, said the investigation was ongoing and Vladimir Putin had been informed of the detentions, the government television network Rossiya-24 reported.Nemtsov, 55, was shot four times in the back by a gunman in a passing car while walking close to the Kremlin on the evening of 27 February.It is not clear whether either of the detained men is suspected of firing the shots that killed Nemtsov. The prime witness to the killing returned to Kiev this week. She told the media she was unable to identify who shot Nemtsov. Related: The killing of my friend Boris Nemtsov must signal the death of appeasement | Garry Kasparov Ilya Yashin, an opposition activist, welcomed the detentions but called for more information to be released about the two men. \u201cThe execution of the investigation had not inspired any optimism, but the fact that there have been arrests inspires some optimism,\u201d he said.Nemtsov\u2019s killing came two days before he was due to lead an opposition rally in Moscow. A memorial held instead was attended by tens of thousands of people.Many believe the killing, which occurred in an area of high security near the Kremlin, would not have been possible without official involvement, and may have been an attempt to intimidate other government opponents.Another opposition figure, Alexei Navalny, who was released from a two-week stint in jail on Friday for organising the initial anti-government rally, accused Russia\u2019s \u201cpolitical leadership\u201d of ordering a hit on Nemtsov.\u201cThere will be no let-up in our efforts, we will give up nothing. This act of terror has not achieved its goal,\u201d he said.Friends said Nemtsov had been working on a report containing what he described as proof of Russian military involvement in eastern Ukraine.Nemtsov was deputy prime minister in the 1990s in the government of Boris Yeltsin, which made him a tainted figure in the eyes of some Russians. He had written a number of reports in recent years linking Putin and his inner circle to alleged corruption, and was one of the best-known politicians among Russia\u2019s small and beleaguered opposition.In 2013, he said as much as $30bn of the estimated $50bn funding for the Winter Olympics in Sochi had gone missing \u2013 a claim the Kremlin denied.Nemtsov\u2019s killing was condemned by world leaders, with the office of the French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, describing it as an assassination. David Cameron said the callous murder must be \u201cfully, rapidly and transparently investigated\u201d.On Friday Nemtsov\u2019s daughter Zhanna told CNN that her father died a hero and that the Russian authorities held political responsibility for the killing. She said she had no confidence that those responsible for her father\u2019s death would be brought to justice: \u201cRussia has crossed the line after this murder and people will be frightened to express ideas contrary to the official standpoint.\u201dPutin has called the killing a \u201cprovocation\u201d, vowing that everything would be done to convict those who committed a \u201cvile and cynical murder\u201d.", "tags": ["Boris Nemtsov", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia detains two men in Boris Nemtsov murder inquiry"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-03-10T11:10:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, says pro-Russia rebels have withdrawn a significant amount of weaponry from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine, three weeks after a ceasefire deal was struck.Attacks have fallen significantly, but accusations of continued violence on both sides show the fragility of the peace accord agreed in Minsk last month, which calls for the withdrawal of heavy weapons from frontlines.\u201cThere is a ceasefire, or there isn\u2019t. It depends on how you look at it, Poroshenko said in a televised interview. \u201cWe can say that we managed to halt the offensive drive of the aggressor.\u201d\u201cUkraine has withdrawn the lion\u2019s share of its rocket and heavy artillery systems. The Russian-backed fighters have also withdrawn a significant amount.\u201dWhile the Minsk agreements have been broadly observed along the frontlines in the past two weeks, Kiev has accused the rebels of continuing to fire on government positions and using the truce to regroup and rearm for a further offensive, a charge the rebels deny.Poroshenko said 64 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the ceasefire was meant to come into force on 15 February. Nearly 6,000 people have been killed since the conflict between government troops and separatists erupted last April, the UN estimates.Underlining continued tensions over the truce, Ukraine accused pro-Russia separatists on Monday of using mortars and a tank to fire on government positions near the eastern port of Mariupol in clashes that lasted several hours. Related: Frontline Ukraine: 'How Europe failed to slay the demons of war' The militants fired on Ukraine\u2019s positions and were attempting to \u201cforce our contingents from Shyrokyne\u201d, a village about 10km (six miles) east of Mariupol on the Azov Sea coast, the headquarters of the army\u2019s operations in the east said in a Facebook post.The claims could not be immediately confirmed but would constitute a serious violation of the peace deal signed in the Belarus capital, Minsk.Mariupol, a steel-making city of 500,000, is the biggest urban centre in the conflict zone still controlled by Kiev. The frontline runs through Shyrokyne.Many Ukrainians fear that any new offensive by the rebels would target Mariupol because of its strategic location and economic importance. The port was hit by a rocket attack in January that killed at least 30 civilians.Four Ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the latest clashes, according to military spokesman Oleg Sushinky.International observers trying to monitor the ceasefire and weapons withdrawal have repeatedly complained that rebels are denying them access to outlying areas of Mariupol.Meanwhile, Nato forces are preparing for a major exercise in the Baltics, where Russia\u2019s involvement in the Ukraine war has jangled nerves.US military officials said that deployment of some 3,000 troops had begun for the three-month Operation Atlantic Resolve. The exercise will see Nato forces working alongside their allies in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - former Soviet republics that are now members of the western alliance.The United States also said on Monday that it had delivered more than 100 pieces of heavy military equipment to the Baltic states.The deliveries are intended to \u201cdemonstrate resolve to President (Vladimir) Putin and Russia that collectively we can come together\u201d, US Major General John R O\u2019Connor told AFP as he oversaw the delivery of the equipment in the port of Riga.According to Nato, Russia has used its annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea province to significantly boost its military presence in the region.\u201cWhat we\u2019ve seen is easy to describe as the militarisation of Crimea,\u201d the alliance\u2019s top commander for Europe, General Philip Breedlove, said in an interview with Ukrainian channel 1+1.\u201cThey\u2019ve brought an air capability, they\u2019ve increased their capability to project sea power from there,\u201d he said.\u201cCrimea has become very much a power projection platform,\u201d he said in an interview broadcast in Ukraine on Sunday evening.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Petro Poroshenko", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pro-Russia fighters have withdrawn weapons, says Ukraine president"},{"date": "2015-03-14T12:18:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ikea is halting the publication of its online magazine in Russia because it fears violating the country\u2019s homophobic law banning the promotion of same-sex relationships.The world\u2019s largest furniture retailer said its magazine Ikea Family Live \u201cdemonstrates various aspects of home life regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation\u201d.In a Russian language statement, the Swedish furniture store said \u201cwe understand that some publications in our magazine can be considered as propaganda\u201d, adding it had decided to stop the publication of the magazine in Russia. The law passed in 2013 bans the promotion of \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d to people under the age of 18.", "tags": ["Ikea", "LGBT rights", "Russia", "Business", "Europe", "Retail industry", "World news"], "title": "Ikea pulls magazine from Russia over 'gay propaganda' law"},{"date": "2015-03-08T07:34:19Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have detained two men in connection with the murder of the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov.The pair were named as Anzor Gubashev and Zaur Dadayev, both from the North Caucasus, a volatile region of southern Russia plagued by insurgency. One of the men was a former police officer, according to Russian news agencies on Sunday.Alexander Bortnikov, head of Russia\u2019s federal security service, said the investigation was ongoing and Vladimir Putin had been informed of the detentions, the government television network Rossiya-24 reported.Nemtsov, 55, was shot four times in the back by a gunman in a passing car while walking close to the Kremlin on the evening of 27 February.It is not clear whether either of the detained men is suspected of firing the shots that killed Nemtsov. The prime witness to the killing returned to Kiev this week. She told the media she was unable to identify who shot Nemtsov. Related: The killing of my friend Boris Nemtsov must signal the death of appeasement | Garry Kasparov Ilya Yashin, an opposition activist, welcomed the detentions but called for more information to be released about the two men. \u201cThe execution of the investigation had not inspired any optimism, but the fact that there have been arrests inspires some optimism,\u201d he said.Nemtsov\u2019s killing came two days before he was due to lead an opposition rally in Moscow. A memorial held instead was attended by tens of thousands of people.Many believe the killing, which occurred in an area of high security near the Kremlin, would not have been possible without official involvement, and may have been an attempt to intimidate other government opponents.Another opposition figure, Alexei Navalny, who was released from a two-week stint in jail on Friday for organising the initial anti-government rally, accused Russia\u2019s \u201cpolitical leadership\u201d of ordering a hit on Nemtsov.\u201cThere will be no let-up in our efforts, we will give up nothing. This act of terror has not achieved its goal,\u201d he said.Friends said Nemtsov had been working on a report containing what he described as proof of Russian military involvement in eastern Ukraine.Nemtsov was deputy prime minister in the 1990s in the government of Boris Yeltsin, which made him a tainted figure in the eyes of some Russians. He had written a number of reports in recent years linking Putin and his inner circle to alleged corruption, and was one of the best-known politicians among Russia\u2019s small and beleaguered opposition.In 2013, he said as much as $30bn of the estimated $50bn funding for the Winter Olympics in Sochi had gone missing \u2013 a claim the Kremlin denied.Nemtsov\u2019s killing was condemned by world leaders, with the office of the French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, describing it as an assassination. David Cameron said the callous murder must be \u201cfully, rapidly and transparently investigated\u201d.On Friday Nemtsov\u2019s daughter Zhanna told CNN that her father died a hero and that the Russian authorities held political responsibility for the killing. She said she had no confidence that those responsible for her father\u2019s death would be brought to justice: \u201cRussia has crossed the line after this murder and people will be frightened to express ideas contrary to the official standpoint.\u201dPutin has called the killing a \u201cprovocation\u201d, vowing that everything would be done to convict those who committed a \u201cvile and cynical murder\u201d.", "tags": ["Boris Nemtsov", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia detains two men in Boris Nemtsov murder inquiry"},{"date": "2015-03-12T16:39:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and North Korea have announced they will deepen economic and political ties under the banner of a \u201cyear of friendship\u201d \u2013 a development that could further complicate the west\u2019s attempts to deal with an increasingly belligerent Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un\u2019s recalcitrant regime in Pyongyang.The prospect of closer co-operation between Putin\u2019s Kremlin and a pariah state with realistic nuclear ambitions will dismay the US, Britain and other countries hoping to pressure Pyongyang into ditching its ambitions to become a nuclear power, and to dissuade Russia from fuelling the war in Ukraine.North Korean state media said the two countries had agreed to make 2015 a \u201cyear of friendship\u201d to mark the 70th anniversary of \u201cKorea\u2019s liberation and the victory in the great Patriotic War in Russia\u201d \u2013 references to the defeats of Japan and Nazi Germany in 1945.KCNA said the countries would \u201cdevelop the bilateral relations on to a new higher stage in various fields, including politics, economy and culture under a mutual agreement\u201d. The Russian foreign ministry said the agreement was designed to elevate ties \u201cin the political, economic, humanitarian and other areas to a new level\u201d.The Kremlin confirmed it had invited North Korea\u2019s leader, Kim Jong-un, to visit Moscow on 9 May to mark the anniversary of the end of the second word war in Europe.The trip would be Kim\u2019s first outside North Korea since he became leader of regime following the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011. The older Kim visited Russia in August 2011 in his armoured train for a meeting with then Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev.The friendship agreement was announced on the same day that officials in Berlin said the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, would not attend the ceremony in Moscow \u2013 a snub believed to be in retaliation for Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea and its support for separatists in Ukraine.The leaders in Moscow and Pyongyang appear to have much in the way of common cause. The UN has targeted North Korea with sanctions since it tested its first nuclear weapon in 2006, and is applying pressure on the Kremlin to end its military involvement in Ukraine.The shift in North Korea\u2019s diplomatic focus towards Russia has been accelerated by tensions with China, Pyongyang\u2019s traditional ally and aid giver. China barely disguised its irritation with Kim after he ordered North Korea\u2019s third nuclear test in 2013 and the execution later that year of his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, who had been instrumental in forging closer co-operation with Beijing. Chinese President Xi Jinping has yet to meet Kim; significantly, though, he has met South Korea\u2019s president, Park Geun-hye, several times.In an apparent attempt to counter Russian influence, China has approved increased co-operation with North Korea along their border and indicated it would be willing to hold a bilateral summit.Xi and Kim could also find themselves face to face at the war commemorations in May.Putin would doubtless welcome the international opprobrium that would follow a public appearance alongside Kim in Moscow this spring. North Korea, meanwhile, stands to gain financially and militarily from closer ties with Russia. In 2014 Moscow cancelled almost US$10bn, or 90%, of North Korea\u2019s bilateral debt and said it would invest the remaining $1.09bn \u2013 to be paid back over 20 years \u2013 in infrastructure projects such as a cross-border gas pipeline between Russia and the North, and a rail link to South Korea.Russia has also offered to invest $25bn in North Korea\u2019s creaking rail network in return for access to mineral resources.It remains to be seen how a closer the Putin-Kim relationship will affect international attempts to end the North\u2019s nuclear weapons programme. Talks involving North Korea, Russia, the US, China, South Korea and Japan to reach a nuclear deal have been stalled since 2009.North Korea is believed to possess between 10 and 16 nuclear weapons developed using plutonium or weapons-grade uranium. A recent report by US researchers warned that Pyongyang was poised to expand its nuclear programme over the next five years. A worst-case scenario would see it armed with as many as 100 nuclear weapons by end of the decade, the report said.", "tags": ["North Korea", "Asia Pacific", "Russia", "Ukraine", "World news"], "title": "North Korea and Russia forge \u2018year of friendship\u2019 pariah alliance"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-03-10T11:10:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, says pro-Russia rebels have withdrawn a significant amount of weaponry from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine, three weeks after a ceasefire deal was struck.Attacks have fallen significantly, but accusations of continued violence on both sides show the fragility of the peace accord agreed in Minsk last month, which calls for the withdrawal of heavy weapons from frontlines.\u201cThere is a ceasefire, or there isn\u2019t. It depends on how you look at it, Poroshenko said in a televised interview. \u201cWe can say that we managed to halt the offensive drive of the aggressor.\u201d\u201cUkraine has withdrawn the lion\u2019s share of its rocket and heavy artillery systems. The Russian-backed fighters have also withdrawn a significant amount.\u201dWhile the Minsk agreements have been broadly observed along the frontlines in the past two weeks, Kiev has accused the rebels of continuing to fire on government positions and using the truce to regroup and rearm for a further offensive, a charge the rebels deny.Poroshenko said 64 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the ceasefire was meant to come into force on 15 February. Nearly 6,000 people have been killed since the conflict between government troops and separatists erupted last April, the UN estimates.Underlining continued tensions over the truce, Ukraine accused pro-Russia separatists on Monday of using mortars and a tank to fire on government positions near the eastern port of Mariupol in clashes that lasted several hours. Related: Frontline Ukraine: 'How Europe failed to slay the demons of war' The militants fired on Ukraine\u2019s positions and were attempting to \u201cforce our contingents from Shyrokyne\u201d, a village about 10km (six miles) east of Mariupol on the Azov Sea coast, the headquarters of the army\u2019s operations in the east said in a Facebook post.The claims could not be immediately confirmed but would constitute a serious violation of the peace deal signed in the Belarus capital, Minsk.Mariupol, a steel-making city of 500,000, is the biggest urban centre in the conflict zone still controlled by Kiev. The frontline runs through Shyrokyne.Many Ukrainians fear that any new offensive by the rebels would target Mariupol because of its strategic location and economic importance. The port was hit by a rocket attack in January that killed at least 30 civilians.Four Ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the latest clashes, according to military spokesman Oleg Sushinky.International observers trying to monitor the ceasefire and weapons withdrawal have repeatedly complained that rebels are denying them access to outlying areas of Mariupol.Meanwhile, Nato forces are preparing for a major exercise in the Baltics, where Russia\u2019s involvement in the Ukraine war has jangled nerves.US military officials said that deployment of some 3,000 troops had begun for the three-month Operation Atlantic Resolve. The exercise will see Nato forces working alongside their allies in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - former Soviet republics that are now members of the western alliance.The United States also said on Monday that it had delivered more than 100 pieces of heavy military equipment to the Baltic states.The deliveries are intended to \u201cdemonstrate resolve to President (Vladimir) Putin and Russia that collectively we can come together\u201d, US Major General John R O\u2019Connor told AFP as he oversaw the delivery of the equipment in the port of Riga.According to Nato, Russia has used its annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea province to significantly boost its military presence in the region.\u201cWhat we\u2019ve seen is easy to describe as the militarisation of Crimea,\u201d the alliance\u2019s top commander for Europe, General Philip Breedlove, said in an interview with Ukrainian channel 1+1.\u201cThey\u2019ve brought an air capability, they\u2019ve increased their capability to project sea power from there,\u201d he said.\u201cCrimea has become very much a power projection platform,\u201d he said in an interview broadcast in Ukraine on Sunday evening.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Petro Poroshenko", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pro-Russia fighters have withdrawn weapons, says Ukraine president"},{"date": "2015-03-14T12:18:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ikea is halting the publication of its online magazine in Russia because it fears violating the country\u2019s homophobic law banning the promotion of same-sex relationships.The world\u2019s largest furniture retailer said its magazine Ikea Family Live \u201cdemonstrates various aspects of home life regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation\u201d.In a Russian language statement, the Swedish furniture store said \u201cwe understand that some publications in our magazine can be considered as propaganda\u201d, adding it had decided to stop the publication of the magazine in Russia. The law passed in 2013 bans the promotion of \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d to people under the age of 18.", "tags": ["Ikea", "LGBT rights", "Russia", "Business", "Europe", "Retail industry", "World news"], "title": "Ikea pulls magazine from Russia over 'gay propaganda' law"},{"date": "2015-03-08T07:34:19Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have detained two men in connection with the murder of the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov.The pair were named as Anzor Gubashev and Zaur Dadayev, both from the North Caucasus, a volatile region of southern Russia plagued by insurgency. One of the men was a former police officer, according to Russian news agencies on Sunday.Alexander Bortnikov, head of Russia\u2019s federal security service, said the investigation was ongoing and Vladimir Putin had been informed of the detentions, the government television network Rossiya-24 reported.Nemtsov, 55, was shot four times in the back by a gunman in a passing car while walking close to the Kremlin on the evening of 27 February.It is not clear whether either of the detained men is suspected of firing the shots that killed Nemtsov. The prime witness to the killing returned to Kiev this week. She told the media she was unable to identify who shot Nemtsov. Related: The killing of my friend Boris Nemtsov must signal the death of appeasement | Garry Kasparov Ilya Yashin, an opposition activist, welcomed the detentions but called for more information to be released about the two men. \u201cThe execution of the investigation had not inspired any optimism, but the fact that there have been arrests inspires some optimism,\u201d he said.Nemtsov\u2019s killing came two days before he was due to lead an opposition rally in Moscow. A memorial held instead was attended by tens of thousands of people.Many believe the killing, which occurred in an area of high security near the Kremlin, would not have been possible without official involvement, and may have been an attempt to intimidate other government opponents.Another opposition figure, Alexei Navalny, who was released from a two-week stint in jail on Friday for organising the initial anti-government rally, accused Russia\u2019s \u201cpolitical leadership\u201d of ordering a hit on Nemtsov.\u201cThere will be no let-up in our efforts, we will give up nothing. This act of terror has not achieved its goal,\u201d he said.Friends said Nemtsov had been working on a report containing what he described as proof of Russian military involvement in eastern Ukraine.Nemtsov was deputy prime minister in the 1990s in the government of Boris Yeltsin, which made him a tainted figure in the eyes of some Russians. He had written a number of reports in recent years linking Putin and his inner circle to alleged corruption, and was one of the best-known politicians among Russia\u2019s small and beleaguered opposition.In 2013, he said as much as $30bn of the estimated $50bn funding for the Winter Olympics in Sochi had gone missing \u2013 a claim the Kremlin denied.Nemtsov\u2019s killing was condemned by world leaders, with the office of the French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, describing it as an assassination. David Cameron said the callous murder must be \u201cfully, rapidly and transparently investigated\u201d.On Friday Nemtsov\u2019s daughter Zhanna told CNN that her father died a hero and that the Russian authorities held political responsibility for the killing. She said she had no confidence that those responsible for her father\u2019s death would be brought to justice: \u201cRussia has crossed the line after this murder and people will be frightened to express ideas contrary to the official standpoint.\u201dPutin has called the killing a \u201cprovocation\u201d, vowing that everything would be done to convict those who committed a \u201cvile and cynical murder\u201d.", "tags": ["Boris Nemtsov", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia detains two men in Boris Nemtsov murder inquiry"},{"date": "2015-03-12T16:39:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and North Korea have announced they will deepen economic and political ties under the banner of a \u201cyear of friendship\u201d \u2013 a development that could further complicate the west\u2019s attempts to deal with an increasingly belligerent Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un\u2019s recalcitrant regime in Pyongyang.The prospect of closer co-operation between Putin\u2019s Kremlin and a pariah state with realistic nuclear ambitions will dismay the US, Britain and other countries hoping to pressure Pyongyang into ditching its ambitions to become a nuclear power, and to dissuade Russia from fuelling the war in Ukraine.North Korean state media said the two countries had agreed to make 2015 a \u201cyear of friendship\u201d to mark the 70th anniversary of \u201cKorea\u2019s liberation and the victory in the great Patriotic War in Russia\u201d \u2013 references to the defeats of Japan and Nazi Germany in 1945.KCNA said the countries would \u201cdevelop the bilateral relations on to a new higher stage in various fields, including politics, economy and culture under a mutual agreement\u201d. The Russian foreign ministry said the agreement was designed to elevate ties \u201cin the political, economic, humanitarian and other areas to a new level\u201d.The Kremlin confirmed it had invited North Korea\u2019s leader, Kim Jong-un, to visit Moscow on 9 May to mark the anniversary of the end of the second word war in Europe.The trip would be Kim\u2019s first outside North Korea since he became leader of regime following the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011. The older Kim visited Russia in August 2011 in his armoured train for a meeting with then Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev.The friendship agreement was announced on the same day that officials in Berlin said the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, would not attend the ceremony in Moscow \u2013 a snub believed to be in retaliation for Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea and its support for separatists in Ukraine.The leaders in Moscow and Pyongyang appear to have much in the way of common cause. The UN has targeted North Korea with sanctions since it tested its first nuclear weapon in 2006, and is applying pressure on the Kremlin to end its military involvement in Ukraine.The shift in North Korea\u2019s diplomatic focus towards Russia has been accelerated by tensions with China, Pyongyang\u2019s traditional ally and aid giver. China barely disguised its irritation with Kim after he ordered North Korea\u2019s third nuclear test in 2013 and the execution later that year of his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, who had been instrumental in forging closer co-operation with Beijing. Chinese President Xi Jinping has yet to meet Kim; significantly, though, he has met South Korea\u2019s president, Park Geun-hye, several times.In an apparent attempt to counter Russian influence, China has approved increased co-operation with North Korea along their border and indicated it would be willing to hold a bilateral summit.Xi and Kim could also find themselves face to face at the war commemorations in May.Putin would doubtless welcome the international opprobrium that would follow a public appearance alongside Kim in Moscow this spring. North Korea, meanwhile, stands to gain financially and militarily from closer ties with Russia. In 2014 Moscow cancelled almost US$10bn, or 90%, of North Korea\u2019s bilateral debt and said it would invest the remaining $1.09bn \u2013 to be paid back over 20 years \u2013 in infrastructure projects such as a cross-border gas pipeline between Russia and the North, and a rail link to South Korea.Russia has also offered to invest $25bn in North Korea\u2019s creaking rail network in return for access to mineral resources.It remains to be seen how a closer the Putin-Kim relationship will affect international attempts to end the North\u2019s nuclear weapons programme. Talks involving North Korea, Russia, the US, China, South Korea and Japan to reach a nuclear deal have been stalled since 2009.North Korea is believed to possess between 10 and 16 nuclear weapons developed using plutonium or weapons-grade uranium. A recent report by US researchers warned that Pyongyang was poised to expand its nuclear programme over the next five years. A worst-case scenario would see it armed with as many as 100 nuclear weapons by end of the decade, the report said.", "tags": ["North Korea", "Asia Pacific", "Russia", "Ukraine", "World news"], "title": "North Korea and Russia forge \u2018year of friendship\u2019 pariah alliance"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:21:36Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is 2018, and, somehow, Russia\u2019s liberal opposition has pulled off a shock victory in presidential elections. The new president\u2019s team arrives in the deserted offices of the Kremlin to take up the posts they have dreamed of for years, and get down to running the world\u2019s biggest country.Unfortunately, running a nuclear superpower is not that easy, it turns out. Russia\u2019s new president is soon faced with problems varying from a power blackout affecting the whole of Moscow to the hacking of his Twitter account.This is the premise of the pilot episode of Tomorrow, described as modern Russia\u2019s first ever televisual political satire, with shades of House of Cards and The Thick of It. The pilot was actually shot two years ago, but after a long and fruitless search for financial backers, the team behind it have decided to turn to crowdfunding in an attempt to raise the 18m roubles (\u00a3200,000) required to make the series. If made, it will be shown on TV Rain, an independent cable station.The writers said the idea first came about in early 2012, when Moscow was engulfed in street protests and there was a sense of optimism in the air among the urban middle class that changes were afoot.\u201cEveryone was a bit naive still and thought everything was going to change, and it seemed like a good idea to make a comedy about it,\u201d recalled Roman Volobuev, one of the co-writers. He said he was approached by Natalya Sindeyeva, the head of TV Rain, who had the idea to make a programme about a new government taking over the Kremlin.\u201cWe didn\u2019t want to just make propaganda for the opposition, so the idea was to make it a comedy,\u201d said Volobuev. In the first draft, there were real opposition figures as characters, including the radical leftist Sergei Udaltsov. But as the writing process went on, real politics in Russia overtook the plot. Udaltsov was one of many arrested at a rally on 6 May 2012 that turned violent, and is now serving a four-and-a-half year prison sentence.\u201cWe came back from writing it and people were getting arrested. We realised we had to change it, so we kept rewriting it and it kept becoming less and less funny. We were trying to insult everyone, which I think is a good idea for comedy, but while we were doing it people were being sent to prison.\u201dThey finally shot the pilot in early 2013, and since then have been seeking funds for it \u2013 unsuccessfully.Political comedy is a risky genre in Russia. On most television channels, political content is monopolised by news of Vladimir Putin\u2019s exploits and highly charged talkshows. Satirical programmes such as the Spitting Image-style Kukly were taken off air soon after Putin entered the Kremlin in 2000. Now, laughing about politics is discouraged.Lena Vanina, the co-writer of Tomorrow, is also one of the scriptwriters on Londongrad, a series due out later this year on the STS television station about the life of Russians in London.\u201cLondongrad is absolutely without politics. You can\u2019t do anything with politics on the federal channels,\u201d she said.On the big screen, there is a little more leeway. This week, a film described as Russia\u2019s first political blockbuster hits the cinemas. Gently pushing the boundaries of what it is permissible to show in a mainstream film, Soulless 2 sees a reformed ex-banker dragged back to Moscow from a cosy exile in Bali. Before he knows it, he is involved in high-level intrigue.\u201cWe set out to write a corporate thriller \u00e0 la The Firm, but quickly realised that in Russia, the role of the \u2018evil corporation\u2019 must inevitably be played by the state itself,\u201d said Michael Idov, one of the scriptwriters for Soulless 2, as well as the creator of Londongrad. \u201cHow did we get away with this? Well, I think Russian censorship tends to look at a film\u2019s \u2018moral\u2019 first and foremost. And one can argue (as I\u2019m sure our brilliant producers have) that the \u2018moral\u2019 of this film is \u2018don\u2019t run away from Russia\u2019s problems; stay here and fix them.\u2019\u201dAt one point in Soulless 2, the presidential motorcade pulls up and Max is shoved into the limo, where an out-of-focus Putin makes him an offer we can\u2019t hear. A few months later, Max is giving a speech in front of a crowd, with a deliberately ambiguous ending. Has he become Putin\u2019s successor? Did he turn down the offer? Or is he now part of the \u201ccontrolled opposition\u201d, the liberal pseudo-challenger role played by the oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov during the last presidential elections.\u201cHe can be either the next Navalny or the next Putin. My sincere hope is that there\u2019s a third movie to clear this up,\u201d Idov said.For Tomorrow, the wait is on to see whether ordinary Russians will stump up the 18m roubles required. A few days ago, one donor agreed to pay 45,000 roubles, enough to have a character named after them if the show gets made. But more than 90% of the funds have yet to be pledged.The writers, both of whom took part in the wave of Moscow protests in 2011-12, say laughing about politics is a \u201cdefence mechanism\u201d to deflect how depressing the situation has become, and once again, the reality of politics in Russia is shaping the changing concept of the series.\u201cThe last time I was sitting at home and thinking about it was a couple of weeks ago, and now Boris Nemtsov has been killed, and we have to rethink it again,\u201d said Volobuev. He and Vanina said that after Nemtsov\u2019s murder, outside the Kremlin last week, they decided they needed \u201ca new language and a new tone\u201d, and if the funds are raised they may take the basic premise and do something completely different.Over the past two years, the writers have shown the pilot to a number of people, and say the results have been surprising. Many executives from state television said they loved the plot and wished the political situation in the country would allow them to make it for their channels, while some opposition figures who saw it were offended.\u201cWe met with one opposition figure who was supposed to consult us on how to get money to make it, but instead he sat there and lectured us for 40 minutes, telling us what shit it was and how useless and vain our characters were, not like him and his friends,\u201d recalled Volobuev.\u201cHe said that when they run Russia there will be none of the problems that we highlighted. I looked at him wearing his peach-coloured cashmere sweater and thought, \u2018OK, good luck with that.\u2019\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news", "Comedy", "Culture", "Television", "Television & radio"], "title": "Satirists seek crowdfunding to kickstart political comedy in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2015-01-28T11:43:51Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia is spending 2.3tn roubles (\u00a322bn) to shore up its economy as sanctions bite and after its debt was downgraded to junk.The government also intends to create a bad bank to house the most troublesome loans held by the country\u2019s embattled banking sector and inject more money into investment projects.Around 60 measures were announced in total, with the National Wealth Fund \u2013 a sovereign wealth fund \u2013 putting 300bn roubles into the state development bank, Vnesheconombank, to increase lending.The moves, announced by Russia\u2019s finance minister, Anton Siluanov, come amid signs that the sanctions imposed by western countries following Russia\u2019s intervention in Ukraine, along with the low oil price, are starting to hurt the economy.As one of the world\u2019s biggest exporters, Russia is feeling the impact of the fall in the value of oil to $50 a barrel \u2013 a more than halving in the price in six months \u2013 and the central bank has warned that GDP could shrink by as much as 4.8% this year if oil prices fail to recover. Official data is due out on Monday.First deputy governor Alexei Simanovsk is also warning that banks\u2019 profits could drop to around 200bn roubles from 300bn roubles and that lending growth could slow this year, perhaps even to zero.Ratings agency Standard & Poor\u2019s downgraded the debt to junk earlier this week \u2013 the first time Russia\u2019s debt has been regarded as sub-investment grade for a decade in a move that risks forcing up the cost of borrowing for the country.It was not immediately clear how much money would be used to create the bad bank and it was reported that only 22 of the 60 ideas outlined by the government had been included in the cost.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Russia announces 60 economic rescue measures"},{"date": "2015-01-29T19:05:23Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The new Greek government has picked its first fight with the European Union, delaying agreement on further EU sanctions against Russian-backed separatists in Ukraine.The move raised European and Nato fears that Moscow might seek to exploit the hard left and extreme right coalition under Alexis Tsipras as a Trojan horse within the key western alliances.An emergency meeting of EU foreign ministers was convened in Brussels to respond to the upsurge in violence in eastern Ukraine, notably last week\u2019s shelling of the town of Mariupol by pro-Russian secessionists which left 30 civilians dead and 100 wounded.On Thursday evening the ministers agreed to prolong the blacklisting of pro-Russian separatist leaders from March until September, to add new names to the blacklist by next week, and asked the European commission to look into broadening the economic and financial sanctions against Russia imposed last July.Before the foreign ministers\u2019 meeting, the 28 EU ambassadors in Brussels met to draft the decisions to be discussed by the ministers. The Greek ambassador refused to agree to the key passage on sanctions \u2013 prolonging the blacklisting of 132 individuals and 28 \u201centities\u201d, mainly in eastern Ukraine and Crimea.Diplomats said the Greek representative told the meeting that he could not take a position until his minister arrived in Brussels. \u201cOne delegation has a general reserve on the text,\u201d the ambassadors stated in the final draft of the document.Although several other countries are lukewarm about renewing or extending sanctions against Moscow or the Russian separatists, diplomats said there were no other dissenters on the statement, which squarely held Russia to blame for facilitating the Mariupol attack.The meeting \u201cnotes evidence of continued and growing support given to the separatists by Russia, which underlines Russia\u2019s responsibility,\u201d the statement said.While falling short of proposing new sanctions on Russia, the statement told the European commission to prepare new \u201cappropriate action\u201d. Diplomats said that meant broader financial and economic penalties against Moscow than those imposed last July and which need to be renewed by this July. Britain is pushing for stronger sanctions against Moscow.Nikos Kotzias, the new Greek foreign minister, said Greece wanted to \u201cprevent a rift\u201d between Russia and the EU, although both sides have been in acute conflict for the past 10 months over Moscow\u2019s assault on Ukraine. Kotzias was later quoted by Reuters as telling the meeting: \u201cWe are not against every sanction. We are in the mainstream, we are not the bad boys.\u201dFederica Mogherini, the EU foreign policy coordinator chairing the meeting, said the decision to augment the sanctions was unanimous. She said Kotzias was \u201ctaking his own position which was changing in the days\u201d.A confrontation is looming after Tsipras\u2019s triumph in the Greek elections on Sunday declared an end to Europe-imposed austerity. On Thursday the president of the European parliament, Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, went to Athens for the first direct contact between Tsipras and a senior EU figure.They talked for several hours, and Schulz looked pale and sombre afterwards. He said they were in dispute, but said he was confident there would be no unilateral moves by the Tsipras government to default on Greece\u2019s debt or abrogate the terms of its bailout agreements with the EU and the International Monetary Fund. Schulz described Sunday\u2019s election in Greece as \u201can extraordinary turning point\u201d.Tsipras said he was launching a war on Greece\u2019s oligarchs and on tax evasion by the wealthy. He predicted that the negotiations with the EU over Greece\u2019s debt burden would be long and difficult.While the financial dispute is by far the biggest issue in the fallout from the Greek election, diplomats and officials in Brussels are surprised that the new Athens team chose to pick a fight over Russia and Ukraine. The Greeks, like the Greek Cypriots, are broadly pro-Russian but have not previously threatened to veto EU action.The foreign ministers\u2019 statement on Thursday is not conclusive, but goes to a summit of EU leader in Brussels in two weeks, Tsipras\u2019s debut on the EU stage. It remains to be seen whether he will use his first appearance at an EU summit to veto an agreement between 28 countries.Officials speculated that Tsipras was using the Russia issue as a bargaining chip in the bigger fight over debt relief. If so, the gambit would go down badly as a crude blackmail attempt.With violence surging in eastern Ukraine and EU-Russia relations getting ever chillier, Moscow threatened to quit the Council of Europe, the Strasbourg-based human rights body which has nothing to do with the EU, after the council\u2019s parliamentary assembly, grouping MPs from the member states, voted narrowly to strip Russia of its voting rights.", "tags": ["Greece", "European Union", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Greece delays EU agreement on Russia sanctions"},{"date": "2015-03-18T18:07:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia celebrated the one-year anniversary of its annexation of the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine on Wednesday with an open-air concert in the centre of Moscow, where crowds were addressed by Vladimir Putin. Related: Crimea still erasing its Ukrainian past a year after Russia's takeover The country\u2019s president said the Russian people had shown \u201camazing patriotism\u201d by supporting the annexation of Crimea, which Moscow regards as a \u201chistorical return\u201d. Putin\u2019s personal approval rating has reached record levels in the past year, despite the Crimea move leading to a worsening of relations with the west and the implementation of sanctions.\u201cWe understood that in terms of Crimea it was not a matter of just some territory, however strategically important it is,\u201d Putin told the crowd on Wednesday. \u201cIt was a matter of millions of Russian people, our compatriots, who needed our help and support.\u201dA year after the annexation, Putin admitted in a documentary aired on Sunday that Russian soldiers were involved in a well-planned operation to take Crimea. At the time, the Kremlin said it merely responded to a local grassroots movement. Related: Norway to restructure military in response to Russian 'aggression' Russian television has been instrumental in promoting the new \u201cpatriotic\u201d mood, and Dmitry Kiselev, the head of a major state news agency, said the anniversary should be a \u201ccelebration for all Russians\u201d. He said Putin had shown \u201ctremendous sincerity\u201d in the documentary and should serve as an example for all world leaders.Meanwhile, as Russia celebrated one annexation, it appeared to pave the way for another. South Ossetian leader Leonid Tibilov signed an \u201calliance and integration\u201d treaty with Russian in the Kremlin on Wednesday. The treaty integrates the security services, the military, the economy and border guards of South Ossetia with those of Russia.Western leaders condemned the agreement, saying it violated Georgia\u2019s sovereignty and international law. Russia has run both South Ossetia and Abkhazia as protectorates after it recognised them as independent states following the brief war with Georgia in 2008. Related: Russian bombers testing the RAF hark back to cold war for Putin and the west \u201cThis so-called treaty is yet another move by the Russian Federation that hampers ongoing efforts by the international community to strengthen security and stability in the region,\u201d said Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg in a statement.In another incident, Nato jets intercepted eight Russian fighter jets and three transport planes in international waters over the Baltic Sea on Wednesday, according to the Lithuanian ministry of defence.\u201cCivil aviation over the Baltic Sea was endangered because of the secretive way the airplanes flew,\u201d a spokesperson said. Russia has resumed these flights in recent months, including an incident when RAF jets were scrambled to intercept two Russian jets off the coast of Cornwall last month.", "tags": ["Russia", "Crimea", "World news", "Europe", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Nato"], "title": "Russia celebrates anniversary of Crimea takeover \u2013 and eyes second annexation"},{"date": "2015-03-10T11:10:58Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Ukrainian president, Petro Poroshenko, says pro-Russia rebels have withdrawn a significant amount of weaponry from the frontlines in eastern Ukraine, three weeks after a ceasefire deal was struck.Attacks have fallen significantly, but accusations of continued violence on both sides show the fragility of the peace accord agreed in Minsk last month, which calls for the withdrawal of heavy weapons from frontlines.\u201cThere is a ceasefire, or there isn\u2019t. It depends on how you look at it, Poroshenko said in a televised interview. \u201cWe can say that we managed to halt the offensive drive of the aggressor.\u201d\u201cUkraine has withdrawn the lion\u2019s share of its rocket and heavy artillery systems. The Russian-backed fighters have also withdrawn a significant amount.\u201dWhile the Minsk agreements have been broadly observed along the frontlines in the past two weeks, Kiev has accused the rebels of continuing to fire on government positions and using the truce to regroup and rearm for a further offensive, a charge the rebels deny.Poroshenko said 64 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the ceasefire was meant to come into force on 15 February. Nearly 6,000 people have been killed since the conflict between government troops and separatists erupted last April, the UN estimates.Underlining continued tensions over the truce, Ukraine accused pro-Russia separatists on Monday of using mortars and a tank to fire on government positions near the eastern port of Mariupol in clashes that lasted several hours. Related: Frontline Ukraine: 'How Europe failed to slay the demons of war' The militants fired on Ukraine\u2019s positions and were attempting to \u201cforce our contingents from Shyrokyne\u201d, a village about 10km (six miles) east of Mariupol on the Azov Sea coast, the headquarters of the army\u2019s operations in the east said in a Facebook post.The claims could not be immediately confirmed but would constitute a serious violation of the peace deal signed in the Belarus capital, Minsk.Mariupol, a steel-making city of 500,000, is the biggest urban centre in the conflict zone still controlled by Kiev. The frontline runs through Shyrokyne.Many Ukrainians fear that any new offensive by the rebels would target Mariupol because of its strategic location and economic importance. The port was hit by a rocket attack in January that killed at least 30 civilians.Four Ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the latest clashes, according to military spokesman Oleg Sushinky.International observers trying to monitor the ceasefire and weapons withdrawal have repeatedly complained that rebels are denying them access to outlying areas of Mariupol.Meanwhile, Nato forces are preparing for a major exercise in the Baltics, where Russia\u2019s involvement in the Ukraine war has jangled nerves.US military officials said that deployment of some 3,000 troops had begun for the three-month Operation Atlantic Resolve. The exercise will see Nato forces working alongside their allies in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - former Soviet republics that are now members of the western alliance.The United States also said on Monday that it had delivered more than 100 pieces of heavy military equipment to the Baltic states.The deliveries are intended to \u201cdemonstrate resolve to President (Vladimir) Putin and Russia that collectively we can come together\u201d, US Major General John R O\u2019Connor told AFP as he oversaw the delivery of the equipment in the port of Riga.According to Nato, Russia has used its annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea province to significantly boost its military presence in the region.\u201cWhat we\u2019ve seen is easy to describe as the militarisation of Crimea,\u201d the alliance\u2019s top commander for Europe, General Philip Breedlove, said in an interview with Ukrainian channel 1+1.\u201cThey\u2019ve brought an air capability, they\u2019ve increased their capability to project sea power from there,\u201d he said.\u201cCrimea has become very much a power projection platform,\u201d he said in an interview broadcast in Ukraine on Sunday evening.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Petro Poroshenko", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Pro-Russia fighters have withdrawn weapons, says Ukraine president"},{"date": "2015-03-14T12:18:41Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Ikea is halting the publication of its online magazine in Russia because it fears violating the country\u2019s homophobic law banning the promotion of same-sex relationships.The world\u2019s largest furniture retailer said its magazine Ikea Family Live \u201cdemonstrates various aspects of home life regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation\u201d.In a Russian language statement, the Swedish furniture store said \u201cwe understand that some publications in our magazine can be considered as propaganda\u201d, adding it had decided to stop the publication of the magazine in Russia. The law passed in 2013 bans the promotion of \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d to people under the age of 18.", "tags": ["Ikea", "LGBT rights", "Russia", "Business", "Europe", "Retail industry", "World news"], "title": "Ikea pulls magazine from Russia over 'gay propaganda' law"},{"date": "2015-03-08T07:34:19Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities have detained two men in connection with the murder of the opposition leader Boris Nemtsov.The pair were named as Anzor Gubashev and Zaur Dadayev, both from the North Caucasus, a volatile region of southern Russia plagued by insurgency. One of the men was a former police officer, according to Russian news agencies on Sunday.Alexander Bortnikov, head of Russia\u2019s federal security service, said the investigation was ongoing and Vladimir Putin had been informed of the detentions, the government television network Rossiya-24 reported.Nemtsov, 55, was shot four times in the back by a gunman in a passing car while walking close to the Kremlin on the evening of 27 February.It is not clear whether either of the detained men is suspected of firing the shots that killed Nemtsov. The prime witness to the killing returned to Kiev this week. She told the media she was unable to identify who shot Nemtsov. Related: The killing of my friend Boris Nemtsov must signal the death of appeasement | Garry Kasparov Ilya Yashin, an opposition activist, welcomed the detentions but called for more information to be released about the two men. \u201cThe execution of the investigation had not inspired any optimism, but the fact that there have been arrests inspires some optimism,\u201d he said.Nemtsov\u2019s killing came two days before he was due to lead an opposition rally in Moscow. A memorial held instead was attended by tens of thousands of people.Many believe the killing, which occurred in an area of high security near the Kremlin, would not have been possible without official involvement, and may have been an attempt to intimidate other government opponents.Another opposition figure, Alexei Navalny, who was released from a two-week stint in jail on Friday for organising the initial anti-government rally, accused Russia\u2019s \u201cpolitical leadership\u201d of ordering a hit on Nemtsov.\u201cThere will be no let-up in our efforts, we will give up nothing. This act of terror has not achieved its goal,\u201d he said.Friends said Nemtsov had been working on a report containing what he described as proof of Russian military involvement in eastern Ukraine.Nemtsov was deputy prime minister in the 1990s in the government of Boris Yeltsin, which made him a tainted figure in the eyes of some Russians. He had written a number of reports in recent years linking Putin and his inner circle to alleged corruption, and was one of the best-known politicians among Russia\u2019s small and beleaguered opposition.In 2013, he said as much as $30bn of the estimated $50bn funding for the Winter Olympics in Sochi had gone missing \u2013 a claim the Kremlin denied.Nemtsov\u2019s killing was condemned by world leaders, with the office of the French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, describing it as an assassination. David Cameron said the callous murder must be \u201cfully, rapidly and transparently investigated\u201d.On Friday Nemtsov\u2019s daughter Zhanna told CNN that her father died a hero and that the Russian authorities held political responsibility for the killing. She said she had no confidence that those responsible for her father\u2019s death would be brought to justice: \u201cRussia has crossed the line after this murder and people will be frightened to express ideas contrary to the official standpoint.\u201dPutin has called the killing a \u201cprovocation\u201d, vowing that everything would be done to convict those who committed a \u201cvile and cynical murder\u201d.", "tags": ["Boris Nemtsov", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia detains two men in Boris Nemtsov murder inquiry"},{"date": "2015-03-12T16:39:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia and North Korea have announced they will deepen economic and political ties under the banner of a \u201cyear of friendship\u201d \u2013 a development that could further complicate the west\u2019s attempts to deal with an increasingly belligerent Vladimir Putin and Kim Jong-un\u2019s recalcitrant regime in Pyongyang.The prospect of closer co-operation between Putin\u2019s Kremlin and a pariah state with realistic nuclear ambitions will dismay the US, Britain and other countries hoping to pressure Pyongyang into ditching its ambitions to become a nuclear power, and to dissuade Russia from fuelling the war in Ukraine.North Korean state media said the two countries had agreed to make 2015 a \u201cyear of friendship\u201d to mark the 70th anniversary of \u201cKorea\u2019s liberation and the victory in the great Patriotic War in Russia\u201d \u2013 references to the defeats of Japan and Nazi Germany in 1945.KCNA said the countries would \u201cdevelop the bilateral relations on to a new higher stage in various fields, including politics, economy and culture under a mutual agreement\u201d. The Russian foreign ministry said the agreement was designed to elevate ties \u201cin the political, economic, humanitarian and other areas to a new level\u201d.The Kremlin confirmed it had invited North Korea\u2019s leader, Kim Jong-un, to visit Moscow on 9 May to mark the anniversary of the end of the second word war in Europe.The trip would be Kim\u2019s first outside North Korea since he became leader of regime following the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011. The older Kim visited Russia in August 2011 in his armoured train for a meeting with then Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev.The friendship agreement was announced on the same day that officials in Berlin said the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, would not attend the ceremony in Moscow \u2013 a snub believed to be in retaliation for Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea and its support for separatists in Ukraine.The leaders in Moscow and Pyongyang appear to have much in the way of common cause. The UN has targeted North Korea with sanctions since it tested its first nuclear weapon in 2006, and is applying pressure on the Kremlin to end its military involvement in Ukraine.The shift in North Korea\u2019s diplomatic focus towards Russia has been accelerated by tensions with China, Pyongyang\u2019s traditional ally and aid giver. China barely disguised its irritation with Kim after he ordered North Korea\u2019s third nuclear test in 2013 and the execution later that year of his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, who had been instrumental in forging closer co-operation with Beijing. Chinese President Xi Jinping has yet to meet Kim; significantly, though, he has met South Korea\u2019s president, Park Geun-hye, several times.In an apparent attempt to counter Russian influence, China has approved increased co-operation with North Korea along their border and indicated it would be willing to hold a bilateral summit.Xi and Kim could also find themselves face to face at the war commemorations in May.Putin would doubtless welcome the international opprobrium that would follow a public appearance alongside Kim in Moscow this spring. North Korea, meanwhile, stands to gain financially and militarily from closer ties with Russia. In 2014 Moscow cancelled almost US$10bn, or 90%, of North Korea\u2019s bilateral debt and said it would invest the remaining $1.09bn \u2013 to be paid back over 20 years \u2013 in infrastructure projects such as a cross-border gas pipeline between Russia and the North, and a rail link to South Korea.Russia has also offered to invest $25bn in North Korea\u2019s creaking rail network in return for access to mineral resources.It remains to be seen how a closer the Putin-Kim relationship will affect international attempts to end the North\u2019s nuclear weapons programme. Talks involving North Korea, Russia, the US, China, South Korea and Japan to reach a nuclear deal have been stalled since 2009.North Korea is believed to possess between 10 and 16 nuclear weapons developed using plutonium or weapons-grade uranium. A recent report by US researchers warned that Pyongyang was poised to expand its nuclear programme over the next five years. A worst-case scenario would see it armed with as many as 100 nuclear weapons by end of the decade, the report said.", "tags": ["North Korea", "Asia Pacific", "Russia", "Ukraine", "World news"], "title": "North Korea and Russia forge \u2018year of friendship\u2019 pariah alliance"},{"date": "2015-03-06T19:21:36Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It is 2018, and, somehow, Russia\u2019s liberal opposition has pulled off a shock victory in presidential elections. The new president\u2019s team arrives in the deserted offices of the Kremlin to take up the posts they have dreamed of for years, and get down to running the world\u2019s biggest country.Unfortunately, running a nuclear superpower is not that easy, it turns out. Russia\u2019s new president is soon faced with problems varying from a power blackout affecting the whole of Moscow to the hacking of his Twitter account.This is the premise of the pilot episode of Tomorrow, described as modern Russia\u2019s first ever televisual political satire, with shades of House of Cards and The Thick of It. The pilot was actually shot two years ago, but after a long and fruitless search for financial backers, the team behind it have decided to turn to crowdfunding in an attempt to raise the 18m roubles (\u00a3200,000) required to make the series. If made, it will be shown on TV Rain, an independent cable station.The writers said the idea first came about in early 2012, when Moscow was engulfed in street protests and there was a sense of optimism in the air among the urban middle class that changes were afoot.\u201cEveryone was a bit naive still and thought everything was going to change, and it seemed like a good idea to make a comedy about it,\u201d recalled Roman Volobuev, one of the co-writers. He said he was approached by Natalya Sindeyeva, the head of TV Rain, who had the idea to make a programme about a new government taking over the Kremlin.\u201cWe didn\u2019t want to just make propaganda for the opposition, so the idea was to make it a comedy,\u201d said Volobuev. In the first draft, there were real opposition figures as characters, including the radical leftist Sergei Udaltsov. But as the writing process went on, real politics in Russia overtook the plot. Udaltsov was one of many arrested at a rally on 6 May 2012 that turned violent, and is now serving a four-and-a-half year prison sentence.\u201cWe came back from writing it and people were getting arrested. We realised we had to change it, so we kept rewriting it and it kept becoming less and less funny. We were trying to insult everyone, which I think is a good idea for comedy, but while we were doing it people were being sent to prison.\u201dThey finally shot the pilot in early 2013, and since then have been seeking funds for it \u2013 unsuccessfully.Political comedy is a risky genre in Russia. On most television channels, political content is monopolised by news of Vladimir Putin\u2019s exploits and highly charged talkshows. Satirical programmes such as the Spitting Image-style Kukly were taken off air soon after Putin entered the Kremlin in 2000. Now, laughing about politics is discouraged.Lena Vanina, the co-writer of Tomorrow, is also one of the scriptwriters on Londongrad, a series due out later this year on the STS television station about the life of Russians in London.\u201cLondongrad is absolutely without politics. You can\u2019t do anything with politics on the federal channels,\u201d she said.On the big screen, there is a little more leeway. This week, a film described as Russia\u2019s first political blockbuster hits the cinemas. Gently pushing the boundaries of what it is permissible to show in a mainstream film, Soulless 2 sees a reformed ex-banker dragged back to Moscow from a cosy exile in Bali. Before he knows it, he is involved in high-level intrigue.\u201cWe set out to write a corporate thriller \u00e0 la The Firm, but quickly realised that in Russia, the role of the \u2018evil corporation\u2019 must inevitably be played by the state itself,\u201d said Michael Idov, one of the scriptwriters for Soulless 2, as well as the creator of Londongrad. \u201cHow did we get away with this? Well, I think Russian censorship tends to look at a film\u2019s \u2018moral\u2019 first and foremost. And one can argue (as I\u2019m sure our brilliant producers have) that the \u2018moral\u2019 of this film is \u2018don\u2019t run away from Russia\u2019s problems; stay here and fix them.\u2019\u201dAt one point in Soulless 2, the presidential motorcade pulls up and Max is shoved into the limo, where an out-of-focus Putin makes him an offer we can\u2019t hear. A few months later, Max is giving a speech in front of a crowd, with a deliberately ambiguous ending. Has he become Putin\u2019s successor? Did he turn down the offer? Or is he now part of the \u201ccontrolled opposition\u201d, the liberal pseudo-challenger role played by the oligarch Mikhail Prokhorov during the last presidential elections.\u201cHe can be either the next Navalny or the next Putin. My sincere hope is that there\u2019s a third movie to clear this up,\u201d Idov said.For Tomorrow, the wait is on to see whether ordinary Russians will stump up the 18m roubles required. A few days ago, one donor agreed to pay 45,000 roubles, enough to have a character named after them if the show gets made. But more than 90% of the funds have yet to be pledged.The writers, both of whom took part in the wave of Moscow protests in 2011-12, say laughing about politics is a \u201cdefence mechanism\u201d to deflect how depressing the situation has become, and once again, the reality of politics in Russia is shaping the changing concept of the series.\u201cThe last time I was sitting at home and thinking about it was a couple of weeks ago, and now Boris Nemtsov has been killed, and we have to rethink it again,\u201d said Volobuev. He and Vanina said that after Nemtsov\u2019s murder, outside the Kremlin last week, they decided they needed \u201ca new language and a new tone\u201d, and if the funds are raised they may take the basic premise and do something completely different.Over the past two years, the writers have shown the pilot to a number of people, and say the results have been surprising. Many executives from state television said they loved the plot and wished the political situation in the country would allow them to make it for their channels, while some opposition figures who saw it were offended.\u201cWe met with one opposition figure who was supposed to consult us on how to get money to make it, but instead he sat there and lectured us for 40 minutes, telling us what shit it was and how useless and vain our characters were, not like him and his friends,\u201d recalled Volobuev.\u201cHe said that when they run Russia there will be none of the problems that we highlighted. I looked at him wearing his peach-coloured cashmere sweater and thought, \u2018OK, good luck with that.\u2019\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "World news", "Comedy", "Culture", "Television", "Television & radio"], "title": "Satirists seek crowdfunding to kickstart political comedy in Putin's Russia"},{"date": "2015-03-04T20:02:04Z", "country": "russia", "content": "A quarter of a century after the end of the cold war, the \u201cRussian threat\u201d is unmistakably back. Vladimir Putin, Britain\u2019s defence secretary Michael Fallon declares, is as great a danger to Europe as \u201cIslamic State\u201d. There may be no ideological confrontation, and Russia may be a shadow of its Soviet predecessor, but the anti-Russian drumbeat has now reached fever pitch.And much more than in Soviet times, the campaign is personal. It\u2019s all about Putin. The Russian president is an expansionist dictator who has launched a \u201cshameless aggression\u201d. He is the epitome of \u201cpolitical depravity\u201d, \u201ccarving up\u201d his neighbours as he crushes dissent at home, and routinely is compared to Hitler. Putin has now become a cartoon villain and Russia the target of almost uniformly belligerent propaganda across the western media. Anyone who questions the dominant narrative on Ukraine \u2013 from last year\u2019s overthrow of the elected president and the role of Ukrainian far right to war crimes carried out by Kiev\u2019s forces \u2013 is dismissed as a Kremlin dupe. Related: Ukraine has ignored the far right for too long \u2013 it must wake up to the danger | Volodymyr Ishchenko That has been ratcheted up still further with the murder of the opposition politician Boris Nemtsov. The Russian president has, of course, been blamed for the killing, though that makes little sense. Nemtsov was a marginal figure whose role in the \u201ccatastroika\u201d of the 1990s scarcely endeared him to ordinary Russians. Responsibility for an outrage that exposed the lack of security in the heart of Moscow and was certain to damage the president hardly seems likely to lie with Putin or his supporters.But it\u2019s certainly grist to the mill of those pushing military confrontation with Russia. Hundreds of US troops are arriving in Ukraine this week to bolster the Kiev regime\u2019s war with Russian-backed rebels in the east. Not to be outdone, Britain is sending 75 military advisers of its own. As 20th-century history shows, the dispatch of military advisers is often how disastrous escalations start. They are also a direct violation of last month\u2019s Minsk agreement, negotiated with France and Germany, that has at least achieved a temporary ceasefire and some pull-back of heavy weapons. Article 10 requires the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Ukraine.But Nato\u2019s hawks have got the bit between their teeth. Thousands of Nato troops have been sent to the Baltic states \u2013 the Atlantic alliance\u2019s new frontline \u2013 untroubled by their indulgence of neo-Nazi parades and denial of minority ethnic rights. A string of American political leaders and generals are calling for the US to arm Kiev, from the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, General Martin Dempsey, to the new defence secretary, Ashton Carter. For the western military complex, the Ukraine conflict has the added attraction of creating new reasons to increase arms spending, as the US army\u2019s General Raymond Odierno made clear when he complained this week about British defence cuts in the face of the \u201cRussian threat\u201d.Putin\u2019s authoritarian conservatism may offer little for Russia\u2019s future, but this anti-Russian incitement is dangerous folly. There certainly has been military expansionism. But it has overwhelmingly come from Nato, not Moscow. For 20 years, despite the commitments at the end of the cold war, Nato has marched relentlessly eastwards, taking in first former east European Warsaw Pact states, then republics of the former Soviet Union itself. As the academic Richard Sakwa puts it in his book Frontline Ukraine, Nato now \u201cexists to manage the risks created by its existence\u201d.Instead of creating a common European security system including Russia, the US-dominated alliance has expanded up to the Russian border \u2013 insisting that is merely the sovereign choice of the states concerned. It clearly isn\u2019t. It\u2019s also the product of an alliance system designed to entrench American \u201cleadership\u201d on the European continent \u2013 laid out in Pentagon planning drawn up after the collapse of the Soviet Union to \u201cprevent the re-emergence of a new rival\u201d.Russia has now challenged that, and the consequences have been played out in Ukraine for the past year: starting with the western-backed ousting of the elected government, through the installation of a Ukrainian nationalist regime, the Russian takeover of Crimea and Moscow-backed uprising in the Donbass. On the ground, it has meant thousands of dead, hundreds of thousands of refugees, indiscriminate shelling of civilian areas and the rise of Ukrainian fascist militias such as the Azov battalion, supported by Kiev and its western sponsors, now preparing to \u201cdefend\u201d Mariupol from its own people. For the bulk of the western media, that\u2019s dismissed as Kremlin propaganda.Most Russians want Putin to take a tougher stand \u2018because of their experience of the past 25 years'Russian covert military support for the rebels, on the other hand, is denounced as aggression and \u201chybrid warfare\u201d \u2013 by the same governments that have waged covert wars from Nicaragua to Syria, quite apart from outright aggressions and illegal campaigns in Kosovo, Libya and Iraq.That doesn\u2019t justify less extreme Russian violations of international law, but it puts them in the context of Russian security. While Putin is portrayed in the west as a reckless land-grabber, in Russian terms he is a centrist. As the veteran Russian leftist Boris Kagarlitsky comments, most Russians want Putin to take a tougher stand against the west \u201cnot because of patriotic propaganda, but their experience of the past 25 years\u201d.In the west, Ukraine \u2013 along with Isis \u2013 is being used to revive the doctrines of liberal interventionism and even neoconservatism, discredited on the killing fields of Iraq and Afghanistan. So far, Angela Merkel and Fran\u00e7ois Hollande have resisted American pressure to arm Kiev. But when the latest Minsk ceasefire breaks down, as it surely will, there is a real risk that Ukraine\u2019s proxy conflict could turn into full-scale international war. Related: Nato expansion and the Ukraine conflict | Letters The alternative is a negotiated settlement which guarantees Ukraine\u2019s neutrality, pluralism and regional autonomy. It may well be too late for that. But there is certainly no military solution. Instead of escalating the war and fuelling nationalist extremism, western powers should be using their leverage to wind it down. If they don\u2019t, the consequences could be disastrous \u2013 far beyond Ukraine.", "tags": ["Russia", "Nato", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Crimea", "World news", "Vladimir Putin", "US military", "US news", "US politics"], "title": "The demonisation of Russia risks paving the way for war | Seumas Milne"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-07T18:16:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Howard Amos\u2019s report on the Odessa fire of 2 May 2014 (2 May), in which at least 45 people died, reminds us how easily tension and mounting distrust can become murderous. On 9 May in Moscow, statesmen are to celebrate the victorious ending of the most destructive war in European history, against Nazi Germany. I understand that no western leaders are to be present. This is regrettable. Non-participation is an insult to the Russian and ex-Soviet peoples, who lost 25 to 27 million citizens to achieve a victory that gave us decades of peace and prosperity. It also means missing an opportunity to negotiate in a relatively favourable atmosphere to try to secure a more permanent peace in Ukraine and finally to end the war that began with that Odessa fire and which has since cost the lives of at least 5,000 people and made hundreds of thousands homeless. Is there any more urgent task facing European statesmen right now?Geoffrey HoskingLondon", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia snub wastes chance of Ukraine peace | Letters"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-07T18:16:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Howard Amos\u2019s report on the Odessa fire of 2 May 2014 (2 May), in which at least 45 people died, reminds us how easily tension and mounting distrust can become murderous. On 9 May in Moscow, statesmen are to celebrate the victorious ending of the most destructive war in European history, against Nazi Germany. I understand that no western leaders are to be present. This is regrettable. Non-participation is an insult to the Russian and ex-Soviet peoples, who lost 25 to 27 million citizens to achieve a victory that gave us decades of peace and prosperity. It also means missing an opportunity to negotiate in a relatively favourable atmosphere to try to secure a more permanent peace in Ukraine and finally to end the war that began with that Odessa fire and which has since cost the lives of at least 5,000 people and made hundreds of thousands homeless. Is there any more urgent task facing European statesmen right now?Geoffrey HoskingLondon", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia snub wastes chance of Ukraine peace | Letters"},{"date": "2015-04-05T18:47:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de criticises Greek premier Alexis Tsipras for his approach to Russia on account of Moscow\u2019s undemocratic and domineering domestic and foreign policies (Opinion, 3 April). She condemns Vladimir Putin for his actions towards Ukraine, yet she overlooks the fact that the European leadership, with Germany at the front, has managed to ruin the economy of a fellow member of the EU and reduce its population to beggary without a shot being fired, without a single soldier crossing the border.She condemns Russia\u2019s democratic deficit, yet she overlooks the fact that Greece elected a new government, pledged to root out corruption and to sort out taxation and to try to get the country back on to its feet. The EU demands Greece carry on implementing the discredited austerity programme that has not only led to mass destitution, but makes recovery all the more difficult to achieve. This is the cruelly undemocratic reality of the \u201cEuropean project\u201d. In view of this, it is not surprising that Greece looks to somewhere else, another country which, for whatever reason, might offer some help. Dr Paul FlewersLondon\u2022 The only policy point Timothy Garton Ash presses on us or his young idols in Kiev (Opinion, 4 April) appears to be the use of war to bring about the birth of a nation. The imposition of (widely evaded and unpopular) conscription and martial law, not to mention the miners\u2019 strike in the west, consorts ill with his assertion that this war is popular in west and central Ukraine. Full \u2013 indeed any \u2013 inclusion of ethnic Russians is nowhere on his agenda, though his ascription of malign motives to Putin is de rigueur for the Guardian, as for the rest of Nato\u2019s mainstream media.Ben CosinDeal, Kent", "tags": ["Greece", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Nato", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Failed EU policy turns Greece to Russia | Letters"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-07T18:16:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Howard Amos\u2019s report on the Odessa fire of 2 May 2014 (2 May), in which at least 45 people died, reminds us how easily tension and mounting distrust can become murderous. On 9 May in Moscow, statesmen are to celebrate the victorious ending of the most destructive war in European history, against Nazi Germany. I understand that no western leaders are to be present. This is regrettable. Non-participation is an insult to the Russian and ex-Soviet peoples, who lost 25 to 27 million citizens to achieve a victory that gave us decades of peace and prosperity. It also means missing an opportunity to negotiate in a relatively favourable atmosphere to try to secure a more permanent peace in Ukraine and finally to end the war that began with that Odessa fire and which has since cost the lives of at least 5,000 people and made hundreds of thousands homeless. Is there any more urgent task facing European statesmen right now?Geoffrey HoskingLondon", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia snub wastes chance of Ukraine peace | Letters"},{"date": "2015-04-05T18:47:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de criticises Greek premier Alexis Tsipras for his approach to Russia on account of Moscow\u2019s undemocratic and domineering domestic and foreign policies (Opinion, 3 April). She condemns Vladimir Putin for his actions towards Ukraine, yet she overlooks the fact that the European leadership, with Germany at the front, has managed to ruin the economy of a fellow member of the EU and reduce its population to beggary without a shot being fired, without a single soldier crossing the border.She condemns Russia\u2019s democratic deficit, yet she overlooks the fact that Greece elected a new government, pledged to root out corruption and to sort out taxation and to try to get the country back on to its feet. The EU demands Greece carry on implementing the discredited austerity programme that has not only led to mass destitution, but makes recovery all the more difficult to achieve. This is the cruelly undemocratic reality of the \u201cEuropean project\u201d. In view of this, it is not surprising that Greece looks to somewhere else, another country which, for whatever reason, might offer some help. Dr Paul FlewersLondon\u2022 The only policy point Timothy Garton Ash presses on us or his young idols in Kiev (Opinion, 4 April) appears to be the use of war to bring about the birth of a nation. The imposition of (widely evaded and unpopular) conscription and martial law, not to mention the miners\u2019 strike in the west, consorts ill with his assertion that this war is popular in west and central Ukraine. Full \u2013 indeed any \u2013 inclusion of ethnic Russians is nowhere on his agenda, though his ascription of malign motives to Putin is de rigueur for the Guardian, as for the rest of Nato\u2019s mainstream media.Ben CosinDeal, Kent", "tags": ["Greece", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Nato", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Failed EU policy turns Greece to Russia | Letters"},{"date": "2015-06-08T19:41:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has used the close of the G7 summit in Germany to deliver his strongest criticism yet of Vladimir Putin, lambasting the Russian president\u2019s isolationist approach as the seven leaders signalled their readiness to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalates.\u201cDoes he continue to wreck his country\u2019s economy and continue Russia\u2019s isolation in pursuit of a wrong-headed desire to recreate the glories of the Soviet empire? Or does he recognise that Russia\u2019s greatness does not depend on violating the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries?\u201d the US president said at the close of the intensive discussions in Bavaria as world leaders, including the summit\u2019s host, Angela Merkel, presented a united front against Putin.The German chancellor stressed that while she hoped the situation in Ukraine would not worsen, the G7 leaders were prepared to implement tougher sanctions if it did. We are \u201cready, should the situation escalate \u2013 which we don\u2019t want \u2013 to strengthen sanctions if the situation makes that necessary but we believe we should do everything to move forward the political process of Minsk\u201d, Merkel said.Obama warned that if Russia were to \u201cdouble down\u201d on what he called its \u201caggressive behaviour\u201d in Ukraine, \u201cadditional steps\u201d could be taken. Related: G7 leaders agree to phase out fossil fuel use by end of century Merkel, who maintained a sporadic line of communication with Putin through the early stages of the conflict, stressed that current sanctions would remain in place until Russia cooperated with implementing a peace plan agreed in Minsk in February.The European members of the G7 \u2013 Britain, Italy and France \u2013 said they would support the extension of the main EU sanctions when they meet later this month.Obama had come to Bavaria on Sunday with the intention of pushing for a tougher approach to Russia. And while Merkel was keen to stress that the Ukraine crisis had not dominated the two days of talks, it was certainly the uppermost topic in the coverage.Russia was suspended from the G8 last year over its occupation and annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea region and its backing of separatists in eastern Ukraine.The G7 leaders pledged to intensify their support for Ukraine\u2019s reform and economic growth programmes, but refused to be drawn on the subject of military aid. Some of them already deliver support under bilateral agreements.In its 17-page communique, the G7 warned: \u201cWe also stand ready to take further restrictive measures in order to increase [the] cost on Russia should its actions so require.\u201dObama said it was wrong of Putin to suggest he was protecting the Russian speakers in Ukraine, saying: \u201cRussian speakers inside Ukraine are precisely the ones who are bearing the brunt of the fighting.\u201dA Kremlin spokesman said earlier in the day that while Russia had paid attention to the latest threats of sanctions, the G7 had produced no \u201cnew theses\u201d. Related: Patriotism, propaganda and parmesan: what do Muscovites really think? Dmitry Peskov said he believed the G7 leaders were far from united in their approach to Russia. \u201cWe also draw attention to the fact that among the participants of this meeting there are nuances in their approaches. Some talk about the need for dialogue with Russia and the impossibility of solving serious problems without this dialogue, so we continue watching closely,\u201d he said.Speaking elsewhere on Monday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that western countries were obliged to ensure that Kiev also stuck by the terms of the Minsk agreement it had agreed on, including withdrawing heavy weapons and allowing more autonomy in separatist-held regions.\u201cWe proceed from the point of view that Germany and France, other colleagues in the EU and the United States \u2026 work with the Ukrainian authorities, encouraging them to honestly fully implement the Minsk agreements,\u201d he told a press conference.Merkel said that in discussions with leaders from African countries and Iraq, the delegates had \u201cagreed to work together to further combat terrorism\u201d.  Related: What is Guardian Moscow Week? \u0427\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u044d\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435 \u0441 \u0440\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043a\u0446\u0438\u0435\u0439 Guardian \u0432 \u041c\u043e\u0441\u043a\u0432\u0435? Meanwhile it emerged that Russian trolls have been attacking an Instagram account newly-opened by Merkel before the summit, to which she had posted more than 50 photographs. Many of the comments were critical of her and praised Putin. Some warned that Russians would \u201csoon be in Berlin again\u201d in revenge for Merkel\u2019s criticism of Putin.Elsewhere the G7 agreed on climate change reforms, including the phasing out of fossil fuels by the end of the century, and pledged to eradicate extreme poverty by 2050.A protest planned to round off the summit fizzled out after organisers complained of fatigue. But the environmental pressure group Greenpeace secured the most publicity of all the protests, with the message it projected in a green laser beam on the escarpment of a local mountain, reading: \u201cG7: Go for 100 per cent renewables.\u201d ", "tags": ["G7", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-07T18:16:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Howard Amos\u2019s report on the Odessa fire of 2 May 2014 (2 May), in which at least 45 people died, reminds us how easily tension and mounting distrust can become murderous. On 9 May in Moscow, statesmen are to celebrate the victorious ending of the most destructive war in European history, against Nazi Germany. I understand that no western leaders are to be present. This is regrettable. Non-participation is an insult to the Russian and ex-Soviet peoples, who lost 25 to 27 million citizens to achieve a victory that gave us decades of peace and prosperity. It also means missing an opportunity to negotiate in a relatively favourable atmosphere to try to secure a more permanent peace in Ukraine and finally to end the war that began with that Odessa fire and which has since cost the lives of at least 5,000 people and made hundreds of thousands homeless. Is there any more urgent task facing European statesmen right now?Geoffrey HoskingLondon", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia snub wastes chance of Ukraine peace | Letters"},{"date": "2015-04-05T18:47:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de criticises Greek premier Alexis Tsipras for his approach to Russia on account of Moscow\u2019s undemocratic and domineering domestic and foreign policies (Opinion, 3 April). She condemns Vladimir Putin for his actions towards Ukraine, yet she overlooks the fact that the European leadership, with Germany at the front, has managed to ruin the economy of a fellow member of the EU and reduce its population to beggary without a shot being fired, without a single soldier crossing the border.She condemns Russia\u2019s democratic deficit, yet she overlooks the fact that Greece elected a new government, pledged to root out corruption and to sort out taxation and to try to get the country back on to its feet. The EU demands Greece carry on implementing the discredited austerity programme that has not only led to mass destitution, but makes recovery all the more difficult to achieve. This is the cruelly undemocratic reality of the \u201cEuropean project\u201d. In view of this, it is not surprising that Greece looks to somewhere else, another country which, for whatever reason, might offer some help. Dr Paul FlewersLondon\u2022 The only policy point Timothy Garton Ash presses on us or his young idols in Kiev (Opinion, 4 April) appears to be the use of war to bring about the birth of a nation. The imposition of (widely evaded and unpopular) conscription and martial law, not to mention the miners\u2019 strike in the west, consorts ill with his assertion that this war is popular in west and central Ukraine. Full \u2013 indeed any \u2013 inclusion of ethnic Russians is nowhere on his agenda, though his ascription of malign motives to Putin is de rigueur for the Guardian, as for the rest of Nato\u2019s mainstream media.Ben CosinDeal, Kent", "tags": ["Greece", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Nato", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Failed EU policy turns Greece to Russia | Letters"},{"date": "2015-06-08T19:41:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has used the close of the G7 summit in Germany to deliver his strongest criticism yet of Vladimir Putin, lambasting the Russian president\u2019s isolationist approach as the seven leaders signalled their readiness to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalates.\u201cDoes he continue to wreck his country\u2019s economy and continue Russia\u2019s isolation in pursuit of a wrong-headed desire to recreate the glories of the Soviet empire? Or does he recognise that Russia\u2019s greatness does not depend on violating the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries?\u201d the US president said at the close of the intensive discussions in Bavaria as world leaders, including the summit\u2019s host, Angela Merkel, presented a united front against Putin.The German chancellor stressed that while she hoped the situation in Ukraine would not worsen, the G7 leaders were prepared to implement tougher sanctions if it did. We are \u201cready, should the situation escalate \u2013 which we don\u2019t want \u2013 to strengthen sanctions if the situation makes that necessary but we believe we should do everything to move forward the political process of Minsk\u201d, Merkel said.Obama warned that if Russia were to \u201cdouble down\u201d on what he called its \u201caggressive behaviour\u201d in Ukraine, \u201cadditional steps\u201d could be taken. Related: G7 leaders agree to phase out fossil fuel use by end of century Merkel, who maintained a sporadic line of communication with Putin through the early stages of the conflict, stressed that current sanctions would remain in place until Russia cooperated with implementing a peace plan agreed in Minsk in February.The European members of the G7 \u2013 Britain, Italy and France \u2013 said they would support the extension of the main EU sanctions when they meet later this month.Obama had come to Bavaria on Sunday with the intention of pushing for a tougher approach to Russia. And while Merkel was keen to stress that the Ukraine crisis had not dominated the two days of talks, it was certainly the uppermost topic in the coverage.Russia was suspended from the G8 last year over its occupation and annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea region and its backing of separatists in eastern Ukraine.The G7 leaders pledged to intensify their support for Ukraine\u2019s reform and economic growth programmes, but refused to be drawn on the subject of military aid. Some of them already deliver support under bilateral agreements.In its 17-page communique, the G7 warned: \u201cWe also stand ready to take further restrictive measures in order to increase [the] cost on Russia should its actions so require.\u201dObama said it was wrong of Putin to suggest he was protecting the Russian speakers in Ukraine, saying: \u201cRussian speakers inside Ukraine are precisely the ones who are bearing the brunt of the fighting.\u201dA Kremlin spokesman said earlier in the day that while Russia had paid attention to the latest threats of sanctions, the G7 had produced no \u201cnew theses\u201d. Related: Patriotism, propaganda and parmesan: what do Muscovites really think? Dmitry Peskov said he believed the G7 leaders were far from united in their approach to Russia. \u201cWe also draw attention to the fact that among the participants of this meeting there are nuances in their approaches. Some talk about the need for dialogue with Russia and the impossibility of solving serious problems without this dialogue, so we continue watching closely,\u201d he said.Speaking elsewhere on Monday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that western countries were obliged to ensure that Kiev also stuck by the terms of the Minsk agreement it had agreed on, including withdrawing heavy weapons and allowing more autonomy in separatist-held regions.\u201cWe proceed from the point of view that Germany and France, other colleagues in the EU and the United States \u2026 work with the Ukrainian authorities, encouraging them to honestly fully implement the Minsk agreements,\u201d he told a press conference.Merkel said that in discussions with leaders from African countries and Iraq, the delegates had \u201cagreed to work together to further combat terrorism\u201d.  Related: What is Guardian Moscow Week? \u0427\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u044d\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435 \u0441 \u0440\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043a\u0446\u0438\u0435\u0439 Guardian \u0432 \u041c\u043e\u0441\u043a\u0432\u0435? Meanwhile it emerged that Russian trolls have been attacking an Instagram account newly-opened by Merkel before the summit, to which she had posted more than 50 photographs. Many of the comments were critical of her and praised Putin. Some warned that Russians would \u201csoon be in Berlin again\u201d in revenge for Merkel\u2019s criticism of Putin.Elsewhere the G7 agreed on climate change reforms, including the phasing out of fossil fuels by the end of the century, and pledged to eradicate extreme poverty by 2050.A protest planned to round off the summit fizzled out after organisers complained of fatigue. But the environmental pressure group Greenpeace secured the most publicity of all the protests, with the message it projected in a green laser beam on the escarpment of a local mountain, reading: \u201cG7: Go for 100 per cent renewables.\u201d ", "tags": ["G7", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire"},{"date": "2015-06-04T04:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As the Hassan Rouhani government woos western capitals in anticipation of a nuclear deal and the end of sanctions, foreign investors eying opportunities in Iran would do well to remember the lessons from the economies of the crumbled Soviet Union circa 1991 or gaizhi-era China over a decade later: strengthen your legal team, treat trust like a commodity, and beware of cephalopods.Since the administration of economically pragmatic President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iranian governments have attempted to sell large portions of the mostly state-owned economy to \u201cthe real private sector.\u201d But after trying out a range of ideological strategies and transferring large volumes of capital, over 80% of it ended up in the tentacles of organizations linked to the regime: banks, military enterprises, religious foundations, pension funds and populism-driven welfare projects, according to Princeton University scholar Kevan Harris.Far from entering a green field of opportunities, as some members of the Rouhani administration would have them believe, foreign investors will have to reckon with around 120 pseudo-private entities that by the estimates of former deputy industry minister Mohsen Safai Farahani account for half the country\u2019s gross domestic product. Related: China floods Iran with cheap consumer goods in exchange for oil \u201cThe quasi-governmental players are powerful and like octopuses over the Iranian economy,\u201d says Marvin Zonas from the University of Chicago\u2019s Booth School of Business. \u201cNonetheless, major foreign firms will work out relations with many of them which are eager for greater efficiencies\u2026 But the underlying culture is not likely to change anytime soon. Nor is the country\u2019s closed political structure.\u201dStill, Iran is home to dozens of foreign firms that have tackled the intricacies of the local business environment. Following the suit of manufacturers and engineering firms from Turkey and China, whose governments never fully implemented the sanctions regime, South Korea\u2019s Samsung and a several European automakers restarted their activities in Iran, taking advantage of sector-specific exemptions announced by the United States after the start of the nuclear negotiations in 2013.Most international banks are unlikely to touch Iran-based transactions as long as the sanctions on the country\u2019s financial system remain in place, so companies like Chinese computer manufacturer Lenovo or French carmaker Renault rely on oil-for-product swaps and other types of barter. While these measures help meet the immediate needs of a consumer market starved for foreign products, the involved firms are often slated by the Iranian press for cutting disadvantageous deals that hinder the country\u2019s long-term economic prospects. Related: Iranians warn that distrust could replace sanctions as obstacle to business Returning emigrants, who have been trickling back into Iran after the last presidential election, have also made exploratory investments, but many report struggling against a culture of corruption and distrust. In an interview for an article on business culture in the Islamic republic, a veteran corporate lawyer in Iran told Tehran Bureau that breach-of-contract cases have mushroomed in recent years, raising the legal costs of business transactions.Irregularities on the Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE), populated mainly by large industrial holdings co-owned by pseudo-private entities, are also common. Last month, 43 individuals bought up 18 million shares of Mobin Petrochemical Company on a single day of trading, causing share prices to rise by over 30%. A parliamentary committee later cancelled the transaction, which TSE managers said was caused by \u201cdefects in stock trading software.\u201d Related: Foreign carmakers jostle for position in Iran Andreas Schweitzer, CEO of the Swiss-Iranian consultancy Arjan Capital, says he employs a disproportionately large legal team to address the \u201cspecial circumstances\u201d of the Iranian business environment. \u201cYou have to look at Iran as a Chinese or Russian economy that is highly state-owned,\u201d he says. \u201cYou have to make a decision if you accept this. If you do, you have to adjust yourself. We don\u2019t believe that one should go to Iran with just a little bit of business, because the cost is too high.\u201dWhen the government controls most of the economy, \u201cYou cannot prevent that big buyouts are made to government entities. One can\u2019t blame the system as such - one can only privatise again,\u201d Schweitzer says. \u201cI don\u2019t think the government is getting the best value for its assets. If this is the goal, and if one wants to attract money from western investment banks, the process should be competitive.\u201dSchweitzer\u2019s business activities in Iran began eight years ago, with a wind farm construction project in the country\u2019s northwest. The renewable energy sector was exempt from sanctions and wind was a topic of national interest, allowing Schweizer and his partners to access subsidized loans. Together with an Iranian co-investor based in Tabriz, they approached now-Energy Minister Hamid Chitchian, a former Revolutionary Guards intelligence unit head, and completed the four 200-page licenses required and environmental studies.The company was compelled to pause the project amid the inflation and political uncertainty of the late Ahmadinejad era, but to Schweitzer, that all comes with the territory. \u201cYou have to adjust a bit to the geopolitical weather,\u201d he says.To succeed in Iran, Schweitzer recommends raising capital locally and taking advantage of existing infrastructure and expertise. Ideally, the only imports should be upper management and know-how, he says. Now, Arjan Capital consults foreign firms interested in a range of sectors: construction, hospitality, energy and branded retail. \u201cLike the Chinese, the Iranians love western brands, so we bring a few very serious companies...with a long-term vision,\u201d Schweitzer adds. \u201cNo one comes to build just one hotel. They are coming to stay because the cost of getting established is significant.\u201dAs in other transitioning economies, staffing poses a particular challenge for foreign firms. After years of isolation from international trends, Iranian workers lack the skills to fill middle and upper management positions. \u201cIf you needed in Russia 20 years ago 16 interviews to fill one job, you\u2019re looking at double that in Iran,\u201d Schweitzer says.Domestic politics are also likely to affect the role of western businessmen, who will likely have to collaborate with pseudo-private companies and various factions of Iran\u2019s rulings elite to get their projects off the ground. \u201cI doubt things are going to open up for American companies any time soon,\u201d said an Iranian expat doing business there. \u201cEuropeans will partner up with companies linked to the Revolutionary Guards, the bonyads and social welfare organisations to snatch up a lot of the good deals, and the regime will silence hardline opponents of the nuclear deal by handing them the crumbs.\u201dSchweitzer adds that Iran remains a managed economy, and investors should not overestimate the country\u2019s readiness to handle a foreign influx in people and products. \u201cEven if there\u2019s a lot of enthusiasm and pressure built up, it\u2019s a wiser move to make this process organized over a few years,\u201d says Schweizer. \u201cOtherwise, it will be a tsunami that could do more damage than good.\u201dThis article was amended to reflect that Arjan Capital completed four 200-page licenses for its windmill construction project in northwestern Iran. The original article stated that 200 licenses were originally required.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "China", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "Switzerland", "Hassan Rouhani", "Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "South Korea"], "title": "How to succeed in Iran: lessons from Russia and China"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-07T18:16:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Howard Amos\u2019s report on the Odessa fire of 2 May 2014 (2 May), in which at least 45 people died, reminds us how easily tension and mounting distrust can become murderous. On 9 May in Moscow, statesmen are to celebrate the victorious ending of the most destructive war in European history, against Nazi Germany. I understand that no western leaders are to be present. This is regrettable. Non-participation is an insult to the Russian and ex-Soviet peoples, who lost 25 to 27 million citizens to achieve a victory that gave us decades of peace and prosperity. It also means missing an opportunity to negotiate in a relatively favourable atmosphere to try to secure a more permanent peace in Ukraine and finally to end the war that began with that Odessa fire and which has since cost the lives of at least 5,000 people and made hundreds of thousands homeless. Is there any more urgent task facing European statesmen right now?Geoffrey HoskingLondon", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia snub wastes chance of Ukraine peace | Letters"},{"date": "2015-04-05T18:47:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de criticises Greek premier Alexis Tsipras for his approach to Russia on account of Moscow\u2019s undemocratic and domineering domestic and foreign policies (Opinion, 3 April). She condemns Vladimir Putin for his actions towards Ukraine, yet she overlooks the fact that the European leadership, with Germany at the front, has managed to ruin the economy of a fellow member of the EU and reduce its population to beggary without a shot being fired, without a single soldier crossing the border.She condemns Russia\u2019s democratic deficit, yet she overlooks the fact that Greece elected a new government, pledged to root out corruption and to sort out taxation and to try to get the country back on to its feet. The EU demands Greece carry on implementing the discredited austerity programme that has not only led to mass destitution, but makes recovery all the more difficult to achieve. This is the cruelly undemocratic reality of the \u201cEuropean project\u201d. In view of this, it is not surprising that Greece looks to somewhere else, another country which, for whatever reason, might offer some help. Dr Paul FlewersLondon\u2022 The only policy point Timothy Garton Ash presses on us or his young idols in Kiev (Opinion, 4 April) appears to be the use of war to bring about the birth of a nation. The imposition of (widely evaded and unpopular) conscription and martial law, not to mention the miners\u2019 strike in the west, consorts ill with his assertion that this war is popular in west and central Ukraine. Full \u2013 indeed any \u2013 inclusion of ethnic Russians is nowhere on his agenda, though his ascription of malign motives to Putin is de rigueur for the Guardian, as for the rest of Nato\u2019s mainstream media.Ben CosinDeal, Kent", "tags": ["Greece", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Nato", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Failed EU policy turns Greece to Russia | Letters"},{"date": "2015-06-08T19:41:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has used the close of the G7 summit in Germany to deliver his strongest criticism yet of Vladimir Putin, lambasting the Russian president\u2019s isolationist approach as the seven leaders signalled their readiness to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalates.\u201cDoes he continue to wreck his country\u2019s economy and continue Russia\u2019s isolation in pursuit of a wrong-headed desire to recreate the glories of the Soviet empire? Or does he recognise that Russia\u2019s greatness does not depend on violating the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries?\u201d the US president said at the close of the intensive discussions in Bavaria as world leaders, including the summit\u2019s host, Angela Merkel, presented a united front against Putin.The German chancellor stressed that while she hoped the situation in Ukraine would not worsen, the G7 leaders were prepared to implement tougher sanctions if it did. We are \u201cready, should the situation escalate \u2013 which we don\u2019t want \u2013 to strengthen sanctions if the situation makes that necessary but we believe we should do everything to move forward the political process of Minsk\u201d, Merkel said.Obama warned that if Russia were to \u201cdouble down\u201d on what he called its \u201caggressive behaviour\u201d in Ukraine, \u201cadditional steps\u201d could be taken. Related: G7 leaders agree to phase out fossil fuel use by end of century Merkel, who maintained a sporadic line of communication with Putin through the early stages of the conflict, stressed that current sanctions would remain in place until Russia cooperated with implementing a peace plan agreed in Minsk in February.The European members of the G7 \u2013 Britain, Italy and France \u2013 said they would support the extension of the main EU sanctions when they meet later this month.Obama had come to Bavaria on Sunday with the intention of pushing for a tougher approach to Russia. And while Merkel was keen to stress that the Ukraine crisis had not dominated the two days of talks, it was certainly the uppermost topic in the coverage.Russia was suspended from the G8 last year over its occupation and annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea region and its backing of separatists in eastern Ukraine.The G7 leaders pledged to intensify their support for Ukraine\u2019s reform and economic growth programmes, but refused to be drawn on the subject of military aid. Some of them already deliver support under bilateral agreements.In its 17-page communique, the G7 warned: \u201cWe also stand ready to take further restrictive measures in order to increase [the] cost on Russia should its actions so require.\u201dObama said it was wrong of Putin to suggest he was protecting the Russian speakers in Ukraine, saying: \u201cRussian speakers inside Ukraine are precisely the ones who are bearing the brunt of the fighting.\u201dA Kremlin spokesman said earlier in the day that while Russia had paid attention to the latest threats of sanctions, the G7 had produced no \u201cnew theses\u201d. Related: Patriotism, propaganda and parmesan: what do Muscovites really think? Dmitry Peskov said he believed the G7 leaders were far from united in their approach to Russia. \u201cWe also draw attention to the fact that among the participants of this meeting there are nuances in their approaches. Some talk about the need for dialogue with Russia and the impossibility of solving serious problems without this dialogue, so we continue watching closely,\u201d he said.Speaking elsewhere on Monday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that western countries were obliged to ensure that Kiev also stuck by the terms of the Minsk agreement it had agreed on, including withdrawing heavy weapons and allowing more autonomy in separatist-held regions.\u201cWe proceed from the point of view that Germany and France, other colleagues in the EU and the United States \u2026 work with the Ukrainian authorities, encouraging them to honestly fully implement the Minsk agreements,\u201d he told a press conference.Merkel said that in discussions with leaders from African countries and Iraq, the delegates had \u201cagreed to work together to further combat terrorism\u201d.  Related: What is Guardian Moscow Week? \u0427\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u044d\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435 \u0441 \u0440\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043a\u0446\u0438\u0435\u0439 Guardian \u0432 \u041c\u043e\u0441\u043a\u0432\u0435? Meanwhile it emerged that Russian trolls have been attacking an Instagram account newly-opened by Merkel before the summit, to which she had posted more than 50 photographs. Many of the comments were critical of her and praised Putin. Some warned that Russians would \u201csoon be in Berlin again\u201d in revenge for Merkel\u2019s criticism of Putin.Elsewhere the G7 agreed on climate change reforms, including the phasing out of fossil fuels by the end of the century, and pledged to eradicate extreme poverty by 2050.A protest planned to round off the summit fizzled out after organisers complained of fatigue. But the environmental pressure group Greenpeace secured the most publicity of all the protests, with the message it projected in a green laser beam on the escarpment of a local mountain, reading: \u201cG7: Go for 100 per cent renewables.\u201d ", "tags": ["G7", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire"},{"date": "2015-06-04T04:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As the Hassan Rouhani government woos western capitals in anticipation of a nuclear deal and the end of sanctions, foreign investors eying opportunities in Iran would do well to remember the lessons from the economies of the crumbled Soviet Union circa 1991 or gaizhi-era China over a decade later: strengthen your legal team, treat trust like a commodity, and beware of cephalopods.Since the administration of economically pragmatic President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iranian governments have attempted to sell large portions of the mostly state-owned economy to \u201cthe real private sector.\u201d But after trying out a range of ideological strategies and transferring large volumes of capital, over 80% of it ended up in the tentacles of organizations linked to the regime: banks, military enterprises, religious foundations, pension funds and populism-driven welfare projects, according to Princeton University scholar Kevan Harris.Far from entering a green field of opportunities, as some members of the Rouhani administration would have them believe, foreign investors will have to reckon with around 120 pseudo-private entities that by the estimates of former deputy industry minister Mohsen Safai Farahani account for half the country\u2019s gross domestic product. Related: China floods Iran with cheap consumer goods in exchange for oil \u201cThe quasi-governmental players are powerful and like octopuses over the Iranian economy,\u201d says Marvin Zonas from the University of Chicago\u2019s Booth School of Business. \u201cNonetheless, major foreign firms will work out relations with many of them which are eager for greater efficiencies\u2026 But the underlying culture is not likely to change anytime soon. Nor is the country\u2019s closed political structure.\u201dStill, Iran is home to dozens of foreign firms that have tackled the intricacies of the local business environment. Following the suit of manufacturers and engineering firms from Turkey and China, whose governments never fully implemented the sanctions regime, South Korea\u2019s Samsung and a several European automakers restarted their activities in Iran, taking advantage of sector-specific exemptions announced by the United States after the start of the nuclear negotiations in 2013.Most international banks are unlikely to touch Iran-based transactions as long as the sanctions on the country\u2019s financial system remain in place, so companies like Chinese computer manufacturer Lenovo or French carmaker Renault rely on oil-for-product swaps and other types of barter. While these measures help meet the immediate needs of a consumer market starved for foreign products, the involved firms are often slated by the Iranian press for cutting disadvantageous deals that hinder the country\u2019s long-term economic prospects. Related: Iranians warn that distrust could replace sanctions as obstacle to business Returning emigrants, who have been trickling back into Iran after the last presidential election, have also made exploratory investments, but many report struggling against a culture of corruption and distrust. In an interview for an article on business culture in the Islamic republic, a veteran corporate lawyer in Iran told Tehran Bureau that breach-of-contract cases have mushroomed in recent years, raising the legal costs of business transactions.Irregularities on the Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE), populated mainly by large industrial holdings co-owned by pseudo-private entities, are also common. Last month, 43 individuals bought up 18 million shares of Mobin Petrochemical Company on a single day of trading, causing share prices to rise by over 30%. A parliamentary committee later cancelled the transaction, which TSE managers said was caused by \u201cdefects in stock trading software.\u201d Related: Foreign carmakers jostle for position in Iran Andreas Schweitzer, CEO of the Swiss-Iranian consultancy Arjan Capital, says he employs a disproportionately large legal team to address the \u201cspecial circumstances\u201d of the Iranian business environment. \u201cYou have to look at Iran as a Chinese or Russian economy that is highly state-owned,\u201d he says. \u201cYou have to make a decision if you accept this. If you do, you have to adjust yourself. We don\u2019t believe that one should go to Iran with just a little bit of business, because the cost is too high.\u201dWhen the government controls most of the economy, \u201cYou cannot prevent that big buyouts are made to government entities. One can\u2019t blame the system as such - one can only privatise again,\u201d Schweitzer says. \u201cI don\u2019t think the government is getting the best value for its assets. If this is the goal, and if one wants to attract money from western investment banks, the process should be competitive.\u201dSchweitzer\u2019s business activities in Iran began eight years ago, with a wind farm construction project in the country\u2019s northwest. The renewable energy sector was exempt from sanctions and wind was a topic of national interest, allowing Schweizer and his partners to access subsidized loans. Together with an Iranian co-investor based in Tabriz, they approached now-Energy Minister Hamid Chitchian, a former Revolutionary Guards intelligence unit head, and completed the four 200-page licenses required and environmental studies.The company was compelled to pause the project amid the inflation and political uncertainty of the late Ahmadinejad era, but to Schweitzer, that all comes with the territory. \u201cYou have to adjust a bit to the geopolitical weather,\u201d he says.To succeed in Iran, Schweitzer recommends raising capital locally and taking advantage of existing infrastructure and expertise. Ideally, the only imports should be upper management and know-how, he says. Now, Arjan Capital consults foreign firms interested in a range of sectors: construction, hospitality, energy and branded retail. \u201cLike the Chinese, the Iranians love western brands, so we bring a few very serious companies...with a long-term vision,\u201d Schweitzer adds. \u201cNo one comes to build just one hotel. They are coming to stay because the cost of getting established is significant.\u201dAs in other transitioning economies, staffing poses a particular challenge for foreign firms. After years of isolation from international trends, Iranian workers lack the skills to fill middle and upper management positions. \u201cIf you needed in Russia 20 years ago 16 interviews to fill one job, you\u2019re looking at double that in Iran,\u201d Schweitzer says.Domestic politics are also likely to affect the role of western businessmen, who will likely have to collaborate with pseudo-private companies and various factions of Iran\u2019s rulings elite to get their projects off the ground. \u201cI doubt things are going to open up for American companies any time soon,\u201d said an Iranian expat doing business there. \u201cEuropeans will partner up with companies linked to the Revolutionary Guards, the bonyads and social welfare organisations to snatch up a lot of the good deals, and the regime will silence hardline opponents of the nuclear deal by handing them the crumbs.\u201dSchweitzer adds that Iran remains a managed economy, and investors should not overestimate the country\u2019s readiness to handle a foreign influx in people and products. \u201cEven if there\u2019s a lot of enthusiasm and pressure built up, it\u2019s a wiser move to make this process organized over a few years,\u201d says Schweizer. \u201cOtherwise, it will be a tsunami that could do more damage than good.\u201dThis article was amended to reflect that Arjan Capital completed four 200-page licenses for its windmill construction project in northwestern Iran. The original article stated that 200 licenses were originally required.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "China", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "Switzerland", "Hassan Rouhani", "Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "South Korea"], "title": "How to succeed in Iran: lessons from Russia and China"},{"date": "2015-05-23T23:57:50Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Well, it wasn\u2019t THAT bad, in the end, was it? Not quite, yet, Eurogeddon: that\u2019s always threatening, of course, and seldom more so than last night, with hosts Austria, and their cloyingly sweet theme of \u201cBuilding Bridges\u201d \u2013 Vienna even changed its pedestrian traffic-lights to feature same-sex couples \u2013 threatening to turn every over-saccharined Eurocitizen into an instant and justifiably rabid xenophobe.But that doesn\u2019t really have to happen, does it, not with the current situation in Russia.Seldom can the gulf between promotional dream-message and blunt-trauma reality have been more fully realised in the history of Eurovision than the slow realisation that everyone was voting for Russia. Sure, Polina Gagarina had a nice song. Ish. And she genuinely cried, at the end. A Million Voices, yadda yadda. Niceish tune disguising toxic international hypocrisy, hurrah! Related: Eurovision song contest 2015 \u2013 in pictures It was, as that Mr Wogan said so rightly so many years ago (though his prediction that Olivia Newton-John\u2019s career could \u201conly go downhill from here\u201d was a twitch wide of the mark), not about the music but the politics. The music last night \u2013 for that, let me remind everyone, was nominally what we were all there for \u2013 was again, with lovely but very rare exceptions, turbid. Graham Norton, Mr Wogan\u2019s natural successor, had it nailed. \u201cWe\u2019ve had some great songs at the start, and we\u2019re looking forward to some great ones at the end, but for the moment it is a \u2026 a \u2026 lull. Full of big female ballads.\u201d The BBC\u2019s subtitles mistranscribed this rightly as \u201cwith dull female ballads\u201d. Sub-The Voice ballads, more than likely featuring a silly sweeping ball dress and Lady Gaga \u201cee-aye-ee-aye-oh\u201d vocals. Spain and Malta, I\u2019m looking at you in particular.Elsewhere we were woefully ill-served with regard to fun. No Polish udder-swinging milkmaids, no Russian dancing grannies. True, the ever-reinventive George Galloway, fresh from his defeat in Bradford West, did appear on stage for Montenegro. And Romania\u2019s song, including the immortal lyric \u201cBut if a strong wind hits me and I turn to dust \u2026 You will be the reason to start again\u201d (what, from dust?) was sublimely silly, and, despite its having been written for a charity to support abandoned Romanian children (good cause, tick box) the singer\u2019s breathy last gasp \u2013 \u201cdon\u2019t leave the children behind\u201d would have necessitated a heart of stone not to leave one rolling in the aisles.The UK possibly \u2013 it\u2019s all yet to be analysed \u2013 did even worse than our home judges performed in the year Abba won with Waterloo, when we begrudgingly gave them no points at all: count them, none. It was actually a very good song: for shame, Europe. Nigella did well, triffic actually, but I think that the UK\u2019s preview film, which ended up featuring actual drones, might have facilitated some odd memories.Poland, they of the erstwhile milkmaids, went the other way and featured a lovely girl, Monika, in a wheelchair. Never has such a chair, nor such a woman, graced a larger stage: all white billows and kingfisher beauty. Never has a duller song been written.Although Latvia\u2019s came close.Norton correctly described it as the worst title in the contest, and, sure enough, \u201cLove Injected\u201d sounds like a particularly dodgy Lib Dem DVD, as if there\u2019s any other kind.As the vote closed, Russia lost, whew, but so did Australia, grr, who had the best song of the night (actually, I also rather liked Cyprus), featuring, as it did, harmonies, rhythm, bounce, nuance, memory. Way too many audience reactions were, as ever, facilitated by simply moving up a third on the scale or suddenly turning the lights up loud. Woo!So we\u2019re back to Sweden as hosts again, which is nice, and at least they can afford it. They won with a song apparently themed on a sub-literate interpretation of Game of Thrones. \u201cWe are the heroes of our time. But we\u2019re dancing with the demons in our mind.\u201d I may have missed something in the translation. But, actually, it was sung in English, which may be the UK\u2019s only gift from now on to Eurovision.The hilariously ravishing three Austrian hostesses performed in about as many languages, as did Nigella, and got it mostly right throughout the evening. Even when they didn\u2019t, there was always Mr Norton to nudge them along with a dry-as-dust \u201coops. That\u2019s got to be awkward.\u201d But, during the international vote, a technical glitch meant that Marija was forced to utter the words \u201cOops, we\u2019ve lost Estonia.\u201d Here\u2019s hoping the EU doesn\u2019t have to repeat her words.For all that, it was, as ever, great, camp fun. My favourite moment had actually come in the semi-finals earlier in the week, with the Slovenians, and the voiceover informing us that \u201cThey\u2019re a couple. And they never, ever take their headphones off. That\u2019s their gimmick.\u201d Excellent. So I can\u2019t be heard, even if I shout a word about how bad their song is.", "tags": ["Eurovision", "Music", "Eurovision 2015", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Television", "Europe", "World news", "Austria", "Russia", "Sweden", "BBC1", "BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "Graham Norton"], "title": "Sweden defeats Russia to grasp Eurovision song contest victory"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:40Z", "country": "russia", "content": "It\u2019s been a world superpower for most of the past century, but Russia still faces enormous sustainable development challenges \u2013 challenges that are compounded by economic sanctions that are sending its economy into recession territory.The country\u2019s infrastructure, building and manufacturing stock all suffer from extreme energy inefficiency: a recent World Bank study found that efficiency improvements in Russia could cut its energy consumption by 45%, an amount equal to France\u2019s total annual energy consumption.Income inequality is a similarly profound obstacle to progress in Russia, with some reports suggesting that Russia\u2019s wealth gap is the worst in the world. In particular, a report from Credit Suisse found that just 110 Russian citizens hold 35% of the nation\u2019s household wealth. Related: China makes strides with environmental reform, but has long way to go on labor Then there are Russia\u2019s environmental problems: in the Russian Federation, fossil fuels are king. Not only do oil, gas and coal produce 90% of the country\u2019s energy, they are also responsible for more than half of the federal government\u2019s budget. Aside from hydroelectric and nuclear power, Russia\u2019s non-fossil fuel energy resources are fledgling, almost to the point of nonexistence. As global warming melts the world\u2019s permafrost over the course of this century, up to two thirds of Russia\u2019s gargantuan landmass may become swampland, further devastating infrastructure and livelihoods. The official Kremlin response to global warming he been less than encouraging: in the past, Vladimir Putin has said that \u201ctwo or three degrees\u201d of warming could be good for Russia because residents wouldn\u2019t need to spend as much on fur coats.That philosophy can\u2019t withstand the real-world effects of climate change in the country, perhaps most notably the incredible 2010 drought \u2013 which NASA scientist James Hansen and others have statistically linked to climate change in several studies \u2013 that decimated Russia\u2019s wheat crop and sent global wheat prices soaring.But if Russia faces the same panoply of environmental challenges as the rest of the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries \u2013 and the rest of the world \u2013 those challenges are being dwarfed by the country\u2019s social and political challenges. Lately isolated from the West by economic sanctions in the wake of Russia\u2019s annexation of Crimea, the country\u2019s government has responded by cracking down on foreign participation in domestic affairs.In 2012, the Russian government adopted a strict new Foreign Agents Law that requires politically active NGOs that receive international funding to register as foreign agents, which is, as Human Rights Watch explains, \u201ca term generally understood in Russia to mean \u2018traitor\u2019 or \u2018spy\u2019\u201d.  Related: Pussy Riot: \u2018When friendly people like us become enemies of the state, it is very strange\u2019 The definition of political activity has been so broadly applied that it includes policy advocacy aimed at addressing social and environmental woes. Several human rights and environmental groups face fines and criminal prosecution after being labeled as foreign agents in July.In its database, Radio Free Europe \u00ad\u2013 which is compiling a comprehensive list of NGOs facing punishment as foreign agents in Russia \u2013 notes that, among many other groups, Transparency International Russia received a foreign agents warning in April stating that it \u201cseeks to shape public opinion on state policies, particularly on law enforcement and the legislative process\u201d. In the past three years, the law has resulted in a crackdown on pro-democracy groups. Citations under the law have led the US Agency for International Development being expelled after 20 years of work in Russia.The country also has come under fire for its civil rights issues. It faced allegations of corruption around the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. It also became a battleground for gay rights during the games, with widespread boycotts, protests and demonstrations, after the country enacted an anti-gay law and Putin said gay people would not be harassed as long as they \u201cleave children alone\u201d. Those controversies compounded international objections that began after Russian punk band Pussy Riot was jailed for nearly two years for a musical protest at a cathedral in Moscow.In this political environment, the social and environmental may look bleak \u2013 and it\u2019s long odds that anything will change dramatically very soon. But that\u2019s not to say there isn\u2019t any good news coming out of Russia. Despite the foreign agents law, the country is home to a broad network of environmental and social NGOs working locally and regionally, and winning some success.In the wake of the Chernobyl meltdown in 1986, the country enshrined strong environmental protection principles in its constitution. The challenge, of course, is whether those protections will be enforced \u2013 a distant likelihood in a country that consistently ranks in the world\u2019s bottom third on the Transparency International\u2019s Corruption Perception Index, which measures perceptions of corruption in countries and territories by domestic and international observers. Related: 5 reasons why Sochi's Olympics may be the most controversial Games yet | Bill Bowring The industries where Russia depends on foreign markets for support appear to be furthest along the path of sustainability. Russia is home to some of the world\u2019s most important fisheries, for instance, and the country\u2019s fishing firms have made sustainability commitments. The walleye pollock fishery in the Sea of Okhotsk has earned the Marine Stewardship Council sustainability certification, and the cod fishery in the Barents Sea also serves as a model of international cooperation on sustainability.Forestry is another area where Russia is a world-leading power: the forests that cover 45% of Russian land account for 22% of the world\u2019s forests. Although progress is slower on sustainable forestry than fishing, more than 33m hectares of Russian forests have already earned the Forestry Stewardship Council certification for responsible forest management, and environmental nonprofit World Wildlife Fund Russia is partnering with Russian forestry companies and multinationals, including TetraPak and Avon, to spread the adoption of FSC\u2019s sustainable forestry management practices.Despite its isolation, Russia casts a big shadow across both Europe and Asia, not least because of its position at the center of the former Soviet Union. And while Ukraine stands most fully in Russia\u2019s shadow \u2013 not only because of its ongoing geopolitical conflict with Russia, but also from the economic devastation that has resulted from that conflict \u2013 Ukraine is not alone in that shadow.The sanctions levied against Russia by the European Union, the US and others in the wake of the Ukraine crisis have affected countries farther afield as well. After all, Russia retaliated by levying its own sanctions, including a ban on food imports from EU members. This has eliminated about \u20ac320m ($358m) in produce sales from Poland to Russia, devastating Polish apple producers.Even as some European producers have been harmed by Russia\u2019s sanction, some Russian producers have seen it as a great boon, even if sanctions in both directions have made the markets more volatile.  Related: The BRIC nations' response to climate change is critical to the fate of the planet In Russia\u2019s Far East, the nation is entangled with China, Mongolia and other Asian nations, especially in energy and fisheries projects. Ongoing sanctions from the West could end up strengthening ties between Russia and its Asian neighbors: last month, China and Russia announced the formation a $200m joint clean tech incubator.Although Russia\u2019s transformation into a hub of clean energy innovation seems like a long shot, it also seems equally necessary. As its economy shrinks, a dramatic change of course may be the only move that will prevent Russia from a backward slide out of the realm of global economic powerhouses.Jana Kasperkevic, Bruce Watson, and Jennifer Kho contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Climate change", "Russia", "World news", "US income inequality", "Environment", "Climate change", "Politics", "Sustainable development", "Europe", "Business", "Ethical business"], "title": "Russia: the unsustainable superpower"},{"date": "2015-06-14T08:00:07Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As advertisements go, the 1986 film Top Gun was perhaps not the most helpful tool for sales executives seeking commissions by flogging the MiG fighter aircraft.Four of them got shot down by the heroic combination of the US Navy\u2019s Pete \u201cMaverick\u201d Mitchell (Tom Cruise) and Tom \u201cIceman\u201d Kazanski (Val Kilmer), while two others were so spooked by the brilliance of the world\u2019s police force that they retreated to base, thereby allowing Cruise to rediscover that loving feeling with Kelly McGillis\u2019s Charlotte \u201cCharlie\u201d Blackwood.In the real world, the Russian maker of the MiG is less easily spooked by the Americans and their allies, and it has developed much improved sales lines. We saw that at the Farnborough air show last year when, despite the sanctions against their compatriots, the Russians embarrassed fellow delegate David Cameron by waltzing into Hampshire to exhibit their gear.They will be doing the same this week at the UK trade fair\u2019s biennial wingman, the Paris air show \u2013 where Rostec Corporation is organising the presence of nine Russian military contractors exhibiting a range of combat aircraft at one of the most important and prestigious international exhibitions in the industry. Or, as Maverick himself once put it: \u201cThis is what I call a target-rich environment.\u201dThere\u2019s a view in the City that the market is always right and the best predictor of the future. Members of this school always supply numerous examples to bolster their argument, while tending to ignore cases that seem to undermine the thesis, typically small blips such as, er, the financial crisis.A slightly less costly example of the market calling things completely wrong is Betfair, the online betting group which the City failed to understand had been massively overpriced when it floated in 2010. It took a change in business model \u2013 and executive team \u2013 to reverse all that, and since then the shares have soared.So as the company reports full-year results this week, what is the market expecting? Well, a nice rise in revenues and profits, which partly explains why investment banks remain extremely bullish on the shares (60% of them say buy, according to IG Group).Still, there are those who are now worrying that the City is being too optimistic again \u2013 much like all of those betting markets last month which made Ed Miliband the favourite to walk through the door of 10 Downing Street. Among them? The amusingly entitled Betfairpredicts.com.If you mention Mont Blanc during conversations in the Square Mile, folk tend to assume that you\u2019re asking to borrow their fountain pen.But a less brand-obsessed City faction will also have heard of the Alpine mountain \u2013 and a few of them might actually have climbed it.One is Kristin Forbes, a US economist and member of the Bank of England\u2019s monetary policy committee, who\u2019s giving a talk at the London School of Economics this week, entitled: \u201cDisinflation and Deflation: Where? Why? and What\u2019s Next?\u201d.It will be timely, as a day earlier the latest data on UK inflation will be released, with economists expecting a slight rise after last month\u2019s reversal of prices. Of course, any tick-up in the inflation rate will again prompt talk that Forbes and her fellow committee members might soon consider changing the UK\u2019s interest rate, for the first time since March 2009.Which brings us back to Forbes\u2019s hobby. Mont Blanc was once said to stand 4,807m high, only to be revised up to 4,810.9m in 2007, and back down by 45cm to 4,810.45m in November 2009. So the height of the mountain scaled by Forbes has changed more recently than the UK interest rate she helps to set. Who says the City is fast-moving?", "tags": ["Arms trade", "Airline industry", "Russia", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Bank of England", "Interest rates", "Deflation"], "title": "Russia hasn\u2019t lost that air show feeling"},{"date": "2015-05-26T11:51:46Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron and Vladimir Putin have agreed to resume talks to find a solution to the civil war in Syria.The prime minister and the Russian president spoke on the phone for half an hour on Monday afternoon, with Putin congratulating Cameron on his election win.A Downing Street spokesperson said the two leaders agreed their national security advisers should meet to restart talks on the Syrian conflict, which has raged for more years four years and killed an estimated 310,000 people.\u201cOn Syria, both leaders agreed that it is in the interest of both the UK and Russia to help find a solution to the civil war in Syria and particularly to stop the rise of [Isis],\u201d the spokesperson said.Previous talks between Britain and Russia seeking to find a solution to the conflict broke down due to Putin\u2019s continued support of the Syrian leader, Bashar al-Assad.The spokesperson said the prime minister reiterated his belief that Assad could not be part of the solution in Syria, and the two leaders agreed that \u201cboth countries should continue talks with the moderate Syrian opposition as part of this effort\u201d.Cameron and Putin also spoke about the crisis in Ukraine. The spokesperson said the pair would continue to have \u201cdeep differences\u201d, but: \u201cThe priority now must be to deliver full implementation of the Minsk agreement. The prime minister emphasised the need for the trilateral contact group to continue to meet and to work through the outstanding issues.\u201dThe spokesperson added that Cameron concluded the call by noting that \u201cthe UK and Russia had worked successfully together on the Iranian nuclear issue\u201d and that \u201che hoped that in the years ahead [they] could find other issues where the UK and Russia could work together on matters of mutual interest\u201d.", "tags": ["Syria", "Foreign policy", "Russia", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "UK and Russia to resume Syria talks"},{"date": "2015-05-07T18:16:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Howard Amos\u2019s report on the Odessa fire of 2 May 2014 (2 May), in which at least 45 people died, reminds us how easily tension and mounting distrust can become murderous. On 9 May in Moscow, statesmen are to celebrate the victorious ending of the most destructive war in European history, against Nazi Germany. I understand that no western leaders are to be present. This is regrettable. Non-participation is an insult to the Russian and ex-Soviet peoples, who lost 25 to 27 million citizens to achieve a victory that gave us decades of peace and prosperity. It also means missing an opportunity to negotiate in a relatively favourable atmosphere to try to secure a more permanent peace in Ukraine and finally to end the war that began with that Odessa fire and which has since cost the lives of at least 5,000 people and made hundreds of thousands homeless. Is there any more urgent task facing European statesmen right now?Geoffrey HoskingLondon", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Russia", "Second world war", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Russia snub wastes chance of Ukraine peace | Letters"},{"date": "2015-04-05T18:47:38Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de criticises Greek premier Alexis Tsipras for his approach to Russia on account of Moscow\u2019s undemocratic and domineering domestic and foreign policies (Opinion, 3 April). She condemns Vladimir Putin for his actions towards Ukraine, yet she overlooks the fact that the European leadership, with Germany at the front, has managed to ruin the economy of a fellow member of the EU and reduce its population to beggary without a shot being fired, without a single soldier crossing the border.She condemns Russia\u2019s democratic deficit, yet she overlooks the fact that Greece elected a new government, pledged to root out corruption and to sort out taxation and to try to get the country back on to its feet. The EU demands Greece carry on implementing the discredited austerity programme that has not only led to mass destitution, but makes recovery all the more difficult to achieve. This is the cruelly undemocratic reality of the \u201cEuropean project\u201d. In view of this, it is not surprising that Greece looks to somewhere else, another country which, for whatever reason, might offer some help. Dr Paul FlewersLondon\u2022 The only policy point Timothy Garton Ash presses on us or his young idols in Kiev (Opinion, 4 April) appears to be the use of war to bring about the birth of a nation. The imposition of (widely evaded and unpopular) conscription and martial law, not to mention the miners\u2019 strike in the west, consorts ill with his assertion that this war is popular in west and central Ukraine. Full \u2013 indeed any \u2013 inclusion of ethnic Russians is nowhere on his agenda, though his ascription of malign motives to Putin is de rigueur for the Guardian, as for the rest of Nato\u2019s mainstream media.Ben CosinDeal, Kent", "tags": ["Greece", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Nato", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Failed EU policy turns Greece to Russia | Letters"},{"date": "2015-06-08T19:41:25Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Barack Obama has used the close of the G7 summit in Germany to deliver his strongest criticism yet of Vladimir Putin, lambasting the Russian president\u2019s isolationist approach as the seven leaders signalled their readiness to tighten sanctions against Russia if the conflict in Ukraine escalates.\u201cDoes he continue to wreck his country\u2019s economy and continue Russia\u2019s isolation in pursuit of a wrong-headed desire to recreate the glories of the Soviet empire? Or does he recognise that Russia\u2019s greatness does not depend on violating the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries?\u201d the US president said at the close of the intensive discussions in Bavaria as world leaders, including the summit\u2019s host, Angela Merkel, presented a united front against Putin.The German chancellor stressed that while she hoped the situation in Ukraine would not worsen, the G7 leaders were prepared to implement tougher sanctions if it did. We are \u201cready, should the situation escalate \u2013 which we don\u2019t want \u2013 to strengthen sanctions if the situation makes that necessary but we believe we should do everything to move forward the political process of Minsk\u201d, Merkel said.Obama warned that if Russia were to \u201cdouble down\u201d on what he called its \u201caggressive behaviour\u201d in Ukraine, \u201cadditional steps\u201d could be taken. Related: G7 leaders agree to phase out fossil fuel use by end of century Merkel, who maintained a sporadic line of communication with Putin through the early stages of the conflict, stressed that current sanctions would remain in place until Russia cooperated with implementing a peace plan agreed in Minsk in February.The European members of the G7 \u2013 Britain, Italy and France \u2013 said they would support the extension of the main EU sanctions when they meet later this month.Obama had come to Bavaria on Sunday with the intention of pushing for a tougher approach to Russia. And while Merkel was keen to stress that the Ukraine crisis had not dominated the two days of talks, it was certainly the uppermost topic in the coverage.Russia was suspended from the G8 last year over its occupation and annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea region and its backing of separatists in eastern Ukraine.The G7 leaders pledged to intensify their support for Ukraine\u2019s reform and economic growth programmes, but refused to be drawn on the subject of military aid. Some of them already deliver support under bilateral agreements.In its 17-page communique, the G7 warned: \u201cWe also stand ready to take further restrictive measures in order to increase [the] cost on Russia should its actions so require.\u201dObama said it was wrong of Putin to suggest he was protecting the Russian speakers in Ukraine, saying: \u201cRussian speakers inside Ukraine are precisely the ones who are bearing the brunt of the fighting.\u201dA Kremlin spokesman said earlier in the day that while Russia had paid attention to the latest threats of sanctions, the G7 had produced no \u201cnew theses\u201d. Related: Patriotism, propaganda and parmesan: what do Muscovites really think? Dmitry Peskov said he believed the G7 leaders were far from united in their approach to Russia. \u201cWe also draw attention to the fact that among the participants of this meeting there are nuances in their approaches. Some talk about the need for dialogue with Russia and the impossibility of solving serious problems without this dialogue, so we continue watching closely,\u201d he said.Speaking elsewhere on Monday, the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that western countries were obliged to ensure that Kiev also stuck by the terms of the Minsk agreement it had agreed on, including withdrawing heavy weapons and allowing more autonomy in separatist-held regions.\u201cWe proceed from the point of view that Germany and France, other colleagues in the EU and the United States \u2026 work with the Ukrainian authorities, encouraging them to honestly fully implement the Minsk agreements,\u201d he told a press conference.Merkel said that in discussions with leaders from African countries and Iraq, the delegates had \u201cagreed to work together to further combat terrorism\u201d.  Related: What is Guardian Moscow Week? \u0427\u0442\u043e \u0431\u0443\u0434\u0435\u0442 \u043d\u0430 \u044d\u0442\u043e\u0439 \u043d\u0435\u0434\u0435\u043b\u0435 \u0441 \u0440\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043a\u0446\u0438\u0435\u0439 Guardian \u0432 \u041c\u043e\u0441\u043a\u0432\u0435? Meanwhile it emerged that Russian trolls have been attacking an Instagram account newly-opened by Merkel before the summit, to which she had posted more than 50 photographs. Many of the comments were critical of her and praised Putin. Some warned that Russians would \u201csoon be in Berlin again\u201d in revenge for Merkel\u2019s criticism of Putin.Elsewhere the G7 agreed on climate change reforms, including the phasing out of fossil fuels by the end of the century, and pledged to eradicate extreme poverty by 2050.A protest planned to round off the summit fizzled out after organisers complained of fatigue. But the environmental pressure group Greenpeace secured the most publicity of all the protests, with the message it projected in a green laser beam on the escarpment of a local mountain, reading: \u201cG7: Go for 100 per cent renewables.\u201d ", "tags": ["G7", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Barack Obama", "US news", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Vladimir Putin", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Obama lambasts Putin: you're wrecking Russia to recreate Soviet empire"},{"date": "2015-06-04T04:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As the Hassan Rouhani government woos western capitals in anticipation of a nuclear deal and the end of sanctions, foreign investors eying opportunities in Iran would do well to remember the lessons from the economies of the crumbled Soviet Union circa 1991 or gaizhi-era China over a decade later: strengthen your legal team, treat trust like a commodity, and beware of cephalopods.Since the administration of economically pragmatic President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Iranian governments have attempted to sell large portions of the mostly state-owned economy to \u201cthe real private sector.\u201d But after trying out a range of ideological strategies and transferring large volumes of capital, over 80% of it ended up in the tentacles of organizations linked to the regime: banks, military enterprises, religious foundations, pension funds and populism-driven welfare projects, according to Princeton University scholar Kevan Harris.Far from entering a green field of opportunities, as some members of the Rouhani administration would have them believe, foreign investors will have to reckon with around 120 pseudo-private entities that by the estimates of former deputy industry minister Mohsen Safai Farahani account for half the country\u2019s gross domestic product. Related: China floods Iran with cheap consumer goods in exchange for oil \u201cThe quasi-governmental players are powerful and like octopuses over the Iranian economy,\u201d says Marvin Zonas from the University of Chicago\u2019s Booth School of Business. \u201cNonetheless, major foreign firms will work out relations with many of them which are eager for greater efficiencies\u2026 But the underlying culture is not likely to change anytime soon. Nor is the country\u2019s closed political structure.\u201dStill, Iran is home to dozens of foreign firms that have tackled the intricacies of the local business environment. Following the suit of manufacturers and engineering firms from Turkey and China, whose governments never fully implemented the sanctions regime, South Korea\u2019s Samsung and a several European automakers restarted their activities in Iran, taking advantage of sector-specific exemptions announced by the United States after the start of the nuclear negotiations in 2013.Most international banks are unlikely to touch Iran-based transactions as long as the sanctions on the country\u2019s financial system remain in place, so companies like Chinese computer manufacturer Lenovo or French carmaker Renault rely on oil-for-product swaps and other types of barter. While these measures help meet the immediate needs of a consumer market starved for foreign products, the involved firms are often slated by the Iranian press for cutting disadvantageous deals that hinder the country\u2019s long-term economic prospects. Related: Iranians warn that distrust could replace sanctions as obstacle to business Returning emigrants, who have been trickling back into Iran after the last presidential election, have also made exploratory investments, but many report struggling against a culture of corruption and distrust. In an interview for an article on business culture in the Islamic republic, a veteran corporate lawyer in Iran told Tehran Bureau that breach-of-contract cases have mushroomed in recent years, raising the legal costs of business transactions.Irregularities on the Tehran Stock Exchange (TSE), populated mainly by large industrial holdings co-owned by pseudo-private entities, are also common. Last month, 43 individuals bought up 18 million shares of Mobin Petrochemical Company on a single day of trading, causing share prices to rise by over 30%. A parliamentary committee later cancelled the transaction, which TSE managers said was caused by \u201cdefects in stock trading software.\u201d Related: Foreign carmakers jostle for position in Iran Andreas Schweitzer, CEO of the Swiss-Iranian consultancy Arjan Capital, says he employs a disproportionately large legal team to address the \u201cspecial circumstances\u201d of the Iranian business environment. \u201cYou have to look at Iran as a Chinese or Russian economy that is highly state-owned,\u201d he says. \u201cYou have to make a decision if you accept this. If you do, you have to adjust yourself. We don\u2019t believe that one should go to Iran with just a little bit of business, because the cost is too high.\u201dWhen the government controls most of the economy, \u201cYou cannot prevent that big buyouts are made to government entities. One can\u2019t blame the system as such - one can only privatise again,\u201d Schweitzer says. \u201cI don\u2019t think the government is getting the best value for its assets. If this is the goal, and if one wants to attract money from western investment banks, the process should be competitive.\u201dSchweitzer\u2019s business activities in Iran began eight years ago, with a wind farm construction project in the country\u2019s northwest. The renewable energy sector was exempt from sanctions and wind was a topic of national interest, allowing Schweizer and his partners to access subsidized loans. Together with an Iranian co-investor based in Tabriz, they approached now-Energy Minister Hamid Chitchian, a former Revolutionary Guards intelligence unit head, and completed the four 200-page licenses required and environmental studies.The company was compelled to pause the project amid the inflation and political uncertainty of the late Ahmadinejad era, but to Schweitzer, that all comes with the territory. \u201cYou have to adjust a bit to the geopolitical weather,\u201d he says.To succeed in Iran, Schweitzer recommends raising capital locally and taking advantage of existing infrastructure and expertise. Ideally, the only imports should be upper management and know-how, he says. Now, Arjan Capital consults foreign firms interested in a range of sectors: construction, hospitality, energy and branded retail. \u201cLike the Chinese, the Iranians love western brands, so we bring a few very serious companies...with a long-term vision,\u201d Schweitzer adds. \u201cNo one comes to build just one hotel. They are coming to stay because the cost of getting established is significant.\u201dAs in other transitioning economies, staffing poses a particular challenge for foreign firms. After years of isolation from international trends, Iranian workers lack the skills to fill middle and upper management positions. \u201cIf you needed in Russia 20 years ago 16 interviews to fill one job, you\u2019re looking at double that in Iran,\u201d Schweitzer says.Domestic politics are also likely to affect the role of western businessmen, who will likely have to collaborate with pseudo-private companies and various factions of Iran\u2019s rulings elite to get their projects off the ground. \u201cI doubt things are going to open up for American companies any time soon,\u201d said an Iranian expat doing business there. \u201cEuropeans will partner up with companies linked to the Revolutionary Guards, the bonyads and social welfare organisations to snatch up a lot of the good deals, and the regime will silence hardline opponents of the nuclear deal by handing them the crumbs.\u201dSchweitzer adds that Iran remains a managed economy, and investors should not overestimate the country\u2019s readiness to handle a foreign influx in people and products. \u201cEven if there\u2019s a lot of enthusiasm and pressure built up, it\u2019s a wiser move to make this process organized over a few years,\u201d says Schweizer. \u201cOtherwise, it will be a tsunami that could do more damage than good.\u201dThis article was amended to reflect that Arjan Capital completed four 200-page licenses for its windmill construction project in northwestern Iran. The original article stated that 200 licenses were originally required.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "China", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "Switzerland", "Hassan Rouhani", "Ayatollah Ali Khamenei", "South Korea"], "title": "How to succeed in Iran: lessons from Russia and China"},{"date": "2015-05-23T23:57:50Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Well, it wasn\u2019t THAT bad, in the end, was it? Not quite, yet, Eurogeddon: that\u2019s always threatening, of course, and seldom more so than last night, with hosts Austria, and their cloyingly sweet theme of \u201cBuilding Bridges\u201d \u2013 Vienna even changed its pedestrian traffic-lights to feature same-sex couples \u2013 threatening to turn every over-saccharined Eurocitizen into an instant and justifiably rabid xenophobe.But that doesn\u2019t really have to happen, does it, not with the current situation in Russia.Seldom can the gulf between promotional dream-message and blunt-trauma reality have been more fully realised in the history of Eurovision than the slow realisation that everyone was voting for Russia. Sure, Polina Gagarina had a nice song. Ish. And she genuinely cried, at the end. A Million Voices, yadda yadda. Niceish tune disguising toxic international hypocrisy, hurrah! Related: Eurovision song contest 2015 \u2013 in pictures It was, as that Mr Wogan said so rightly so many years ago (though his prediction that Olivia Newton-John\u2019s career could \u201conly go downhill from here\u201d was a twitch wide of the mark), not about the music but the politics. The music last night \u2013 for that, let me remind everyone, was nominally what we were all there for \u2013 was again, with lovely but very rare exceptions, turbid. Graham Norton, Mr Wogan\u2019s natural successor, had it nailed. \u201cWe\u2019ve had some great songs at the start, and we\u2019re looking forward to some great ones at the end, but for the moment it is a \u2026 a \u2026 lull. Full of big female ballads.\u201d The BBC\u2019s subtitles mistranscribed this rightly as \u201cwith dull female ballads\u201d. Sub-The Voice ballads, more than likely featuring a silly sweeping ball dress and Lady Gaga \u201cee-aye-ee-aye-oh\u201d vocals. Spain and Malta, I\u2019m looking at you in particular.Elsewhere we were woefully ill-served with regard to fun. No Polish udder-swinging milkmaids, no Russian dancing grannies. True, the ever-reinventive George Galloway, fresh from his defeat in Bradford West, did appear on stage for Montenegro. And Romania\u2019s song, including the immortal lyric \u201cBut if a strong wind hits me and I turn to dust \u2026 You will be the reason to start again\u201d (what, from dust?) was sublimely silly, and, despite its having been written for a charity to support abandoned Romanian children (good cause, tick box) the singer\u2019s breathy last gasp \u2013 \u201cdon\u2019t leave the children behind\u201d would have necessitated a heart of stone not to leave one rolling in the aisles.The UK possibly \u2013 it\u2019s all yet to be analysed \u2013 did even worse than our home judges performed in the year Abba won with Waterloo, when we begrudgingly gave them no points at all: count them, none. It was actually a very good song: for shame, Europe. Nigella did well, triffic actually, but I think that the UK\u2019s preview film, which ended up featuring actual drones, might have facilitated some odd memories.Poland, they of the erstwhile milkmaids, went the other way and featured a lovely girl, Monika, in a wheelchair. Never has such a chair, nor such a woman, graced a larger stage: all white billows and kingfisher beauty. Never has a duller song been written.Although Latvia\u2019s came close.Norton correctly described it as the worst title in the contest, and, sure enough, \u201cLove Injected\u201d sounds like a particularly dodgy Lib Dem DVD, as if there\u2019s any other kind.As the vote closed, Russia lost, whew, but so did Australia, grr, who had the best song of the night (actually, I also rather liked Cyprus), featuring, as it did, harmonies, rhythm, bounce, nuance, memory. Way too many audience reactions were, as ever, facilitated by simply moving up a third on the scale or suddenly turning the lights up loud. Woo!So we\u2019re back to Sweden as hosts again, which is nice, and at least they can afford it. They won with a song apparently themed on a sub-literate interpretation of Game of Thrones. \u201cWe are the heroes of our time. But we\u2019re dancing with the demons in our mind.\u201d I may have missed something in the translation. But, actually, it was sung in English, which may be the UK\u2019s only gift from now on to Eurovision.The hilariously ravishing three Austrian hostesses performed in about as many languages, as did Nigella, and got it mostly right throughout the evening. Even when they didn\u2019t, there was always Mr Norton to nudge them along with a dry-as-dust \u201coops. That\u2019s got to be awkward.\u201d But, during the international vote, a technical glitch meant that Marija was forced to utter the words \u201cOops, we\u2019ve lost Estonia.\u201d Here\u2019s hoping the EU doesn\u2019t have to repeat her words.For all that, it was, as ever, great, camp fun. My favourite moment had actually come in the semi-finals earlier in the week, with the Slovenians, and the voiceover informing us that \u201cThey\u2019re a couple. And they never, ever take their headphones off. That\u2019s their gimmick.\u201d Excellent. So I can\u2019t be heard, even if I shout a word about how bad their song is.", "tags": ["Eurovision", "Music", "Eurovision 2015", "Television & radio", "Culture", "Television", "Europe", "World news", "Austria", "Russia", "Sweden", "BBC1", "BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "Graham Norton"], "title": "Sweden defeats Russia to grasp Eurovision song contest victory"},{"date": "2015-05-20T17:35:19Z", "country": "russia", "content": "As 2011 dawned, BP was desperate to turn the page. For nine months, the crisis-stricken oil major had been weathering the US fallout from the Deepwater Horizon disaster, which killed 11 workers and caused the largest oil spill in history.BP had lost almost half its value on the stock market. Questions lingered as to whether the business could recover.Bob Dudley, a soft-spoken, Mississippi-raised executive, had been propelled to chief executive in the wake of the crisis. He was determined to scotch such talk. If his US countrymen appeared to have it in for BP, he knew there were other powerful forces in the energy world more forgiving. Related: Revealed: BP's close ties with the UK government  Dudley had run BP\u2019s Russian joint venture for years and knew better than anyone the risks and rewards in the booming hydrocarbon superpower. On 14 January, the BP boss agreed a bold share swap deal with Putin\u2019s state-controlled Rosneft.It was a deal that stunned the business world, revealing BP\u2019s determination to reinvent itself with a new centre of gravity to the east. It was again perceived as a global force on the world stage, and its shares hit their highest level since the disaster. Environmentalists, though, were infuriated. Once at the vanguard of efforts to migrate to a low-carbon world \u201cBeyond Petroleum\u201d, BP was now hitching its wagon to Putin\u2019s controversial state-controlled oil giant, a business racing to dominate fossil fuel riches beneath Arctic \u2014 and dismissive of western climate change warnings.Whatever climate change rhetoric might have been aired before or since, this was serious. In BP\u2019s hour of need, like so often before, the British government sprung forward with its official blessing. \u201cYou cannot move to a low carbon economy overnight,\u201d said the then energy minister Chris Huhne after the hastily arranged signing ceremony on that damp, dark Friday evening at BP\u2019s head office in London\u2019s St James\u2019s Square. \u201cThis is a very key British player which happens to be a fundamental part of almost everybody\u2019s pension fund.\u201d\u201cBP, as we all know, is coming out of a difficult period in its history. This partnership shows BP is very much open for business.\u201d Yet it was only three years since Dudley had fallen out spectacularly with the Russian establishment, fleeing Moscow in the face of what he claimed was \u201csustained harassment\u201d and going into semi-hiding.Leaked US diplomatic cables revealed how Dudley had been whispering to American officials, accusing Igor Sechin, Putin ally and Rosneft boss, of supporting a \u201cblack PR\u201d campaign against him. Another US cable recorded many observers \u201cbelieve [Sechin] was behind \u2026 attacks on TNK-BP\u201d. TNK-BP was the BP joint venture Dudley had run.The eventual BP-Rosneft tie-up was to be cast on slightly altered terms than initially planned \u2014 BP sold its Russian joint venture and took cash and a 19.75% stake in Rosneft. But this was the UK giant pointing to its future. When Vladimir Putin was asked why he had chosen to link up with a company so recently tainted by the Gulf of Mexico disaster, he reached for a suitably muscular Russian proverb: \u201cOne man who\u2019s been beaten is worth two who haven\u2019t.\u201d In Washington, there was outrage. \u201cBP once stood for British Petroleum. With this deal, it now stands for Bolshoi Petroleum,\u201d spluttered Ed Markey, senior Democrat on the House of Representatives\u2019 natural resources committee.And for climate change campaigners, BP\u2019s sharp tack towards Russia was a double blow. The company was falling in with arguably the world\u2019s most ruthlessly expansionist fossil fuel group, set on dominating oil production in the Arctic. And, back in America, activists detected an abrupt fall in the appetite for discussions about global warming.\u201cDeepwater Horizon gave free licence to everybody in the industry to return to their comfort zone, which is: how do we fix and prevent operational disasters?\u201d said one experienced activist investor with a long relationship with BP. \u201cI would find myself saying: \u2018Can we be clear that this hasn\u2019t distracted you from the more long-term process of realigning the business?\u2019 And you would just get blank looks.\u201dBP told the Guardian that safety had been \u201cthe absolute priority of both BP and ... shareholders\u201d following the disaster. Its position on climate change was \u201cclear and consistent\u201d. But if environmentally-minded shareholders were noticing changes at BP, this paled next to concerns over the attitude of the group\u2019s new Russian partner.Sechin, who also serves as Russia\u2019s deputy prime minister, earlier this year brushed aside warnings from top international scientists, insisting the world was regularly subject to \u201cclimate change cycles\u201d. He said: \u201cThose cycles repeat every 30 million years, so everything is normal.\u201dChairing Rosneft\u2019s strategic planning committee is Nicolai Lavernov, the 85-year-old vice-president of the Russian Academy of Science and a former Soviet deputy prime minister. A distinguished geologist, he has previously advised the Kremlin to be weary of international initiatives that were exaggerated, alarmist and might constrain Russia from exploiting its carbon assets. \u201cI can very clearly see a sort of damp-down on countries with petroleum potential,\u201d he told prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in 2009 ahead of the UN climate change summit in Copenhagen. Another member of the nine-strong Rosneft board is polar explorer Artur Chilingarov, best known for leading a three-man submarine mission to plant a Russian flag underneath the north pole in 2007. \u201cThe Arctic is Russian,\u201d he said at the time. \u201cWe must prove the north pole is an extension of the Russian coastal shelf.\u201d Chilingarov was awarded the title of Hero of Russia for his exploits.  According to Rosneft\u2019s latest filings on sustainability, which relate to 2013, the company \u201chas not yet assessed the implications of climate change for its activities\u201d. Such an assessment was planned, but the results may not be published until 2016.Rosneft told the Guardian it had established a working group \u201cto improve corporate accounting and reporting for greenhouse gas emissions, as well as to provide cooperation with governmental agencies and public organisations in the area of greenhouse gas emissions.\u201d", "tags": ["Oil", "Fossil fuels", "BP", "BP oil spill", "Business", "Environment", "World news", "Energy", "Oil", "Russia", "Oil and gas companies", "UK news"], "title": "BP ditched Arctic concerns for strategic deal with Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:27:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s foreign ministry has complained of a \u201cstrange hysteria\u201d over Moscow\u2019s actions in Syria, as western countries expressed concerns over apparent preparations for military intervention.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that \u201cRussia has never made a secret of its military-technical cooperation with Syria\u201d and confirmed that \u201cRussian military specialists are in Syria to help them master the weapons being supplied\u201d. She said there was nothing out of the ordinary about their presence.However, there have been a number of signs of more intensive Russian activity in Syria in recent weeks, including reported sightings of Russian jets and combat vehicles, claims of increased weapons deliveries, and even reports that prefabricated housing was being erected to pave the way for a major military presence. A number of photographs have been posted to social media networks from Tartus in eastern Syria by men who appear to be Russian contract soldiers. The Tartus naval base, which Russia has maintained since the 1970s, was previously a small and low-significance maintenance outpost, but has seen increased activity recently.The reports of growing Russian military activity in Syria were troubling, Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. \u201cI am concerned about reports about increased Russian military presence in Syria,\u201d Stoltenberg said. \u201cThat will not contribute to solving the conflict.\u201d Russia has insisted there is nothing out of the ordinary about the military assistance to the country, and Syrian government officials have also been playing down recent reports about an enhanced Russian military role, but insisting that Moscow remains a supportive ally.\u201cRussian experts are always present but in the last year they have been present to a greater degree,\u201d a Syrian official told Reuters. \u201cAll aspects of the relationship are currently being developed, including the military one.\u201d Related: 'Everyone wants to leave': death of hope drives young Syrians to Europe President Bashar al-Assad did not comment on the question when it was raised by Russian journalists who interviewed him in Damascus on Sunday. But on the diplomatic front, western officials in fact say they detect signs of greater readiness by Moscow to push for a negotiated solution to the Syrian crisis \u2013 in part because of its growing concerns about the threat from Islamic State.Putin is due to travel to the UN general assembly for the first time in a decade later this month, and some analysts speculate he may try to use the current concert over Isis and the refugee crisis to call for an international coalition against terrorism, involving Russia. \u201cIf additional measures in the interests of boosting anti-terrorism efforts are required on our part, this issue will be considered accordingly, but exclusively on the basis of international law and Russian legislature,\u201d Zakharova said.Moscow denounced as \u201cinternational boorishness\u201d a move by Nato member Bulgaria to deny overflight rights to Russian planes travelling to Syria. Moscow says the planes contain humanitarian aid. On Wednesday Iran granted permission for Russian planes to overfly its territory on their way to Syria.\u201cWe\u2019ve indicated that the United States is concerned by reports that Russia may have deployed additional military personnel and aircraft to Syria,\u201d said White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Tuesday.On Saturday, the US State Department announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, had spoken by telephone to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, and warned against expanding Russian military assistance to Syria. Kerry said the moves risked further inflaming the conflict and worsening the current refugee crisis, the State Department said.But Russia\u2019s role in Syria is being eclipsed to some extent by Iran\u2019s. In recent months Tehran has pushed Assad to follow a policy of retrenchment, accepting that parts of the country are now lost to his enemies and that he should consolidate his control over the area around Damascus and a strip running through Homs to the Mediterranean coast.On Wednesday, Syrian state TV reported that insurgents led by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaida\u2019s Syrian affiliate, had captured an airbase after a two-year siege, leaving almost the entire northern province of Idlib free of government forces.The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said insurgents had captured the Abu Zuhour base under the cover of the severe sandstorm that has raged across the country for the previous three days. Insurgents now control nearly the entire province, except for the predominantly Shia villages of Foua and Kfarya, which are in the hands of pro-government militia.Fighting is continuing meanwhile for Zabadani, north-west of Damascus, a strategic position for Assad\u2019s Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Talks on a ceasefire there have included a proposal that the town\u2019s defenders \u2013 from the Sunni Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham \u2013 be exchanged for the Shias of the two Idlib villages. This proposal is seen by some observers as introducing an explicitly sectarian element into the Syrian conflict.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Russia complains of 'strange hysteria' over its presence in Syria"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:27:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s foreign ministry has complained of a \u201cstrange hysteria\u201d over Moscow\u2019s actions in Syria, as western countries expressed concerns over apparent preparations for military intervention.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that \u201cRussia has never made a secret of its military-technical cooperation with Syria\u201d and confirmed that \u201cRussian military specialists are in Syria to help them master the weapons being supplied\u201d. She said there was nothing out of the ordinary about their presence.However, there have been a number of signs of more intensive Russian activity in Syria in recent weeks, including reported sightings of Russian jets and combat vehicles, claims of increased weapons deliveries, and even reports that prefabricated housing was being erected to pave the way for a major military presence. A number of photographs have been posted to social media networks from Tartus in eastern Syria by men who appear to be Russian contract soldiers. The Tartus naval base, which Russia has maintained since the 1970s, was previously a small and low-significance maintenance outpost, but has seen increased activity recently.The reports of growing Russian military activity in Syria were troubling, Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. \u201cI am concerned about reports about increased Russian military presence in Syria,\u201d Stoltenberg said. \u201cThat will not contribute to solving the conflict.\u201d Russia has insisted there is nothing out of the ordinary about the military assistance to the country, and Syrian government officials have also been playing down recent reports about an enhanced Russian military role, but insisting that Moscow remains a supportive ally.\u201cRussian experts are always present but in the last year they have been present to a greater degree,\u201d a Syrian official told Reuters. \u201cAll aspects of the relationship are currently being developed, including the military one.\u201d Related: 'Everyone wants to leave': death of hope drives young Syrians to Europe President Bashar al-Assad did not comment on the question when it was raised by Russian journalists who interviewed him in Damascus on Sunday. But on the diplomatic front, western officials in fact say they detect signs of greater readiness by Moscow to push for a negotiated solution to the Syrian crisis \u2013 in part because of its growing concerns about the threat from Islamic State.Putin is due to travel to the UN general assembly for the first time in a decade later this month, and some analysts speculate he may try to use the current concert over Isis and the refugee crisis to call for an international coalition against terrorism, involving Russia. \u201cIf additional measures in the interests of boosting anti-terrorism efforts are required on our part, this issue will be considered accordingly, but exclusively on the basis of international law and Russian legislature,\u201d Zakharova said.Moscow denounced as \u201cinternational boorishness\u201d a move by Nato member Bulgaria to deny overflight rights to Russian planes travelling to Syria. Moscow says the planes contain humanitarian aid. On Wednesday Iran granted permission for Russian planes to overfly its territory on their way to Syria.\u201cWe\u2019ve indicated that the United States is concerned by reports that Russia may have deployed additional military personnel and aircraft to Syria,\u201d said White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Tuesday.On Saturday, the US State Department announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, had spoken by telephone to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, and warned against expanding Russian military assistance to Syria. Kerry said the moves risked further inflaming the conflict and worsening the current refugee crisis, the State Department said.But Russia\u2019s role in Syria is being eclipsed to some extent by Iran\u2019s. In recent months Tehran has pushed Assad to follow a policy of retrenchment, accepting that parts of the country are now lost to his enemies and that he should consolidate his control over the area around Damascus and a strip running through Homs to the Mediterranean coast.On Wednesday, Syrian state TV reported that insurgents led by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaida\u2019s Syrian affiliate, had captured an airbase after a two-year siege, leaving almost the entire northern province of Idlib free of government forces.The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said insurgents had captured the Abu Zuhour base under the cover of the severe sandstorm that has raged across the country for the previous three days. Insurgents now control nearly the entire province, except for the predominantly Shia villages of Foua and Kfarya, which are in the hands of pro-government militia.Fighting is continuing meanwhile for Zabadani, north-west of Damascus, a strategic position for Assad\u2019s Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Talks on a ceasefire there have included a proposal that the town\u2019s defenders \u2013 from the Sunni Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham \u2013 be exchanged for the Shias of the two Idlib villages. This proposal is seen by some observers as introducing an explicitly sectarian element into the Syrian conflict.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Russia complains of 'strange hysteria' over its presence in Syria"},{"date": "2015-09-05T16:52:44Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden has criticised Russia for its crackdown on internet freedom and lax attitude to gay rights, despite having been granted asylum by the country.The National Security Agency whistleblower described Moscow\u2019s tightening grip over online activities and treatment of gay people as \u201cfundamentally wrong\u201d.The former US intelligence contractor was given a three-year residence permit in August 2014, but insisted that it was never his choice to go there. He said he would prefer to live in the US, although he cannot return without facing arrest for leaking to the Guardian classified documents revealing the vast scale of the country\u2019s surveillance programmes.The 32-year-old was accepting the Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression\u2019s Bjornson prize \u2013 which he was awarded for his work on the right to privacy \u2013 by videophone from Russia when he described the country\u2019s restrictions on the web as a \u201cmistake in policy\u201d. He said: \u201cIt\u2019s wrong in Russia, and it would be wrong anywhere.\u201cI\u2019ve been quite critical of [it] in the past and I\u2019ll continue to be in the future, because this drive that we see in the Russian government to control more and more the internet, to control more and more what people are seeing, even parts of personal lives, deciding what is the appropriate or inappropriate way for people to express their love for one another ... [is] fundamentally wrong.\u201dDespite his criticism of Russia, Snowden said he still felt free to express himself online. \u201cI do. And I think it\u2019s primarily in the context of the fact that most activities happen online. I mean, when people ask me where I live, the most honest answer is on the internet.\u201dBut he described the ever more restrictive use of intelligence monitoring by richer nations as useless and said the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January proved that surveillance does not necessarily keep citizens safe.He said: \u201cThey say: \u2018Well, these things are necessary to keep us safe\u2019. In the Charlie Hebdo attacks, for example, the intelligence services say: \u2018Oh yes, we knew who these people were\u2019. But it didn\u2019t stop the attack.\u201dSnowden, who left Hawaii in May 2013 for Hong Kong, where he leaked the trove of classified documents before leaving for Russia, said his life is now normal but he misses the US. He said: \u201cI mean, I would prefer to live in my own country. But exile is exile.\u201d", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "Norway", "NSA", "The NSA files"], "title": "Snowden criticises Russia for approach to internet and homosexuality"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:27:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s foreign ministry has complained of a \u201cstrange hysteria\u201d over Moscow\u2019s actions in Syria, as western countries expressed concerns over apparent preparations for military intervention.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that \u201cRussia has never made a secret of its military-technical cooperation with Syria\u201d and confirmed that \u201cRussian military specialists are in Syria to help them master the weapons being supplied\u201d. She said there was nothing out of the ordinary about their presence.However, there have been a number of signs of more intensive Russian activity in Syria in recent weeks, including reported sightings of Russian jets and combat vehicles, claims of increased weapons deliveries, and even reports that prefabricated housing was being erected to pave the way for a major military presence. A number of photographs have been posted to social media networks from Tartus in eastern Syria by men who appear to be Russian contract soldiers. The Tartus naval base, which Russia has maintained since the 1970s, was previously a small and low-significance maintenance outpost, but has seen increased activity recently.The reports of growing Russian military activity in Syria were troubling, Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. \u201cI am concerned about reports about increased Russian military presence in Syria,\u201d Stoltenberg said. \u201cThat will not contribute to solving the conflict.\u201d Russia has insisted there is nothing out of the ordinary about the military assistance to the country, and Syrian government officials have also been playing down recent reports about an enhanced Russian military role, but insisting that Moscow remains a supportive ally.\u201cRussian experts are always present but in the last year they have been present to a greater degree,\u201d a Syrian official told Reuters. \u201cAll aspects of the relationship are currently being developed, including the military one.\u201d Related: 'Everyone wants to leave': death of hope drives young Syrians to Europe President Bashar al-Assad did not comment on the question when it was raised by Russian journalists who interviewed him in Damascus on Sunday. But on the diplomatic front, western officials in fact say they detect signs of greater readiness by Moscow to push for a negotiated solution to the Syrian crisis \u2013 in part because of its growing concerns about the threat from Islamic State.Putin is due to travel to the UN general assembly for the first time in a decade later this month, and some analysts speculate he may try to use the current concert over Isis and the refugee crisis to call for an international coalition against terrorism, involving Russia. \u201cIf additional measures in the interests of boosting anti-terrorism efforts are required on our part, this issue will be considered accordingly, but exclusively on the basis of international law and Russian legislature,\u201d Zakharova said.Moscow denounced as \u201cinternational boorishness\u201d a move by Nato member Bulgaria to deny overflight rights to Russian planes travelling to Syria. Moscow says the planes contain humanitarian aid. On Wednesday Iran granted permission for Russian planes to overfly its territory on their way to Syria.\u201cWe\u2019ve indicated that the United States is concerned by reports that Russia may have deployed additional military personnel and aircraft to Syria,\u201d said White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Tuesday.On Saturday, the US State Department announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, had spoken by telephone to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, and warned against expanding Russian military assistance to Syria. Kerry said the moves risked further inflaming the conflict and worsening the current refugee crisis, the State Department said.But Russia\u2019s role in Syria is being eclipsed to some extent by Iran\u2019s. In recent months Tehran has pushed Assad to follow a policy of retrenchment, accepting that parts of the country are now lost to his enemies and that he should consolidate his control over the area around Damascus and a strip running through Homs to the Mediterranean coast.On Wednesday, Syrian state TV reported that insurgents led by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaida\u2019s Syrian affiliate, had captured an airbase after a two-year siege, leaving almost the entire northern province of Idlib free of government forces.The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said insurgents had captured the Abu Zuhour base under the cover of the severe sandstorm that has raged across the country for the previous three days. Insurgents now control nearly the entire province, except for the predominantly Shia villages of Foua and Kfarya, which are in the hands of pro-government militia.Fighting is continuing meanwhile for Zabadani, north-west of Damascus, a strategic position for Assad\u2019s Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Talks on a ceasefire there have included a proposal that the town\u2019s defenders \u2013 from the Sunni Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham \u2013 be exchanged for the Shias of the two Idlib villages. This proposal is seen by some observers as introducing an explicitly sectarian element into the Syrian conflict.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Russia complains of 'strange hysteria' over its presence in Syria"},{"date": "2015-09-05T16:52:44Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden has criticised Russia for its crackdown on internet freedom and lax attitude to gay rights, despite having been granted asylum by the country.The National Security Agency whistleblower described Moscow\u2019s tightening grip over online activities and treatment of gay people as \u201cfundamentally wrong\u201d.The former US intelligence contractor was given a three-year residence permit in August 2014, but insisted that it was never his choice to go there. He said he would prefer to live in the US, although he cannot return without facing arrest for leaking to the Guardian classified documents revealing the vast scale of the country\u2019s surveillance programmes.The 32-year-old was accepting the Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression\u2019s Bjornson prize \u2013 which he was awarded for his work on the right to privacy \u2013 by videophone from Russia when he described the country\u2019s restrictions on the web as a \u201cmistake in policy\u201d. He said: \u201cIt\u2019s wrong in Russia, and it would be wrong anywhere.\u201cI\u2019ve been quite critical of [it] in the past and I\u2019ll continue to be in the future, because this drive that we see in the Russian government to control more and more the internet, to control more and more what people are seeing, even parts of personal lives, deciding what is the appropriate or inappropriate way for people to express their love for one another ... [is] fundamentally wrong.\u201dDespite his criticism of Russia, Snowden said he still felt free to express himself online. \u201cI do. And I think it\u2019s primarily in the context of the fact that most activities happen online. I mean, when people ask me where I live, the most honest answer is on the internet.\u201dBut he described the ever more restrictive use of intelligence monitoring by richer nations as useless and said the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January proved that surveillance does not necessarily keep citizens safe.He said: \u201cThey say: \u2018Well, these things are necessary to keep us safe\u2019. In the Charlie Hebdo attacks, for example, the intelligence services say: \u2018Oh yes, we knew who these people were\u2019. But it didn\u2019t stop the attack.\u201dSnowden, who left Hawaii in May 2013 for Hong Kong, where he leaked the trove of classified documents before leaving for Russia, said his life is now normal but he misses the US. He said: \u201cI mean, I would prefer to live in my own country. But exile is exile.\u201d", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "Norway", "NSA", "The NSA files"], "title": "Snowden criticises Russia for approach to internet and homosexuality"},{"date": "2015-08-25T10:26:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities briefly banned the entire Wikipedia site over a page relating to drug use which the site had refused to edit or delete.The ban was quickly lifted on Tuesday, before it had even gone into effect for most Russian internet users but not before the news had created a wave of panic in the country\u2019s online community. There is increasing concern in Russia about a crackdown on internet freedom.A court in a small town in southern Russia ordered that a Wikipedia page about charas, an Indian form of hashish, be banned as it contained harmful information. Because Wikipedia uses secure https protocol, some internet providers would have to ban the entire website. Late on Monday night, some Moscow internet users found Russian-language Wikipedia banned entirely, while for others it was still working, with a message from the website explaining how to circumvent a ban if it did come into place.In a statement on Tuesday, online watchdog Roskomnadzor said the decision to rescind the banning order came because the forbidden information about charas had been redacted. Wikipedia editors said the page remained the same.\u201cThis is an important case because it\u2019s part of the general offensive against https. Roskomnadzor and the FSB [security services] don\u2019t know what to do with it,\u201d said Andrei Soldatov, a journalist and author of Red Web, a book about the Russian internet. Soldatov said SORM, the system Russia uses for internet surveillance, does not work with the more secure https protocol, also used by sites such as Facebook and Gmail.On 1 September, a rule comes into effect which requires internet servers like Facebook and Twitter to store the data of all Russian users onshore. While Roskomnadzor has said it will not check compliance of major sites such as Facebook until next year, it is part of a drive to put pressure on the companies to keep servers in Russia, where data would be accessible by Russian authorities.Soldatov speculated that the move against Wikipedia could be part of a test of another strategy: by threatening the site with bans over single pages, the site could be forced off https to ensure that the whole site is not affected when only one page is banned. Soldatov said: \u201cThere are two options for https: the first is to have access to the data before encryption, which explains the demand to store servers in Russia. The second is to try to force services to give up on https, which is what is happening with Wikipedia.\u201dRussian authorities have become increasingly suspicious of the subversive powers of the internet in the three years since Vladimir Putin returned to the Kremlin for a third term as president in 2012. Protests in the run-up to his inauguration were largely organised on social media, and within a few months of his return to office he had signed a bill providing a list of banned sites.Earlier this year, Russia, China and a number of central Asian dictatorships submitted a proposal to the UN, clearly aimed at the US, calling for countries not to use the internet \u201cto interfere in the internal affairs of other states or with the aim of undermining their political, economic and social stability\u201d.", "tags": ["Russia", "Wikipedia", "Censorship", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "Russia briefly bans Wikipedia over page relating to drug use"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:27:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s foreign ministry has complained of a \u201cstrange hysteria\u201d over Moscow\u2019s actions in Syria, as western countries expressed concerns over apparent preparations for military intervention.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that \u201cRussia has never made a secret of its military-technical cooperation with Syria\u201d and confirmed that \u201cRussian military specialists are in Syria to help them master the weapons being supplied\u201d. She said there was nothing out of the ordinary about their presence.However, there have been a number of signs of more intensive Russian activity in Syria in recent weeks, including reported sightings of Russian jets and combat vehicles, claims of increased weapons deliveries, and even reports that prefabricated housing was being erected to pave the way for a major military presence. A number of photographs have been posted to social media networks from Tartus in eastern Syria by men who appear to be Russian contract soldiers. The Tartus naval base, which Russia has maintained since the 1970s, was previously a small and low-significance maintenance outpost, but has seen increased activity recently.The reports of growing Russian military activity in Syria were troubling, Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. \u201cI am concerned about reports about increased Russian military presence in Syria,\u201d Stoltenberg said. \u201cThat will not contribute to solving the conflict.\u201d Russia has insisted there is nothing out of the ordinary about the military assistance to the country, and Syrian government officials have also been playing down recent reports about an enhanced Russian military role, but insisting that Moscow remains a supportive ally.\u201cRussian experts are always present but in the last year they have been present to a greater degree,\u201d a Syrian official told Reuters. \u201cAll aspects of the relationship are currently being developed, including the military one.\u201d Related: 'Everyone wants to leave': death of hope drives young Syrians to Europe President Bashar al-Assad did not comment on the question when it was raised by Russian journalists who interviewed him in Damascus on Sunday. But on the diplomatic front, western officials in fact say they detect signs of greater readiness by Moscow to push for a negotiated solution to the Syrian crisis \u2013 in part because of its growing concerns about the threat from Islamic State.Putin is due to travel to the UN general assembly for the first time in a decade later this month, and some analysts speculate he may try to use the current concert over Isis and the refugee crisis to call for an international coalition against terrorism, involving Russia. \u201cIf additional measures in the interests of boosting anti-terrorism efforts are required on our part, this issue will be considered accordingly, but exclusively on the basis of international law and Russian legislature,\u201d Zakharova said.Moscow denounced as \u201cinternational boorishness\u201d a move by Nato member Bulgaria to deny overflight rights to Russian planes travelling to Syria. Moscow says the planes contain humanitarian aid. On Wednesday Iran granted permission for Russian planes to overfly its territory on their way to Syria.\u201cWe\u2019ve indicated that the United States is concerned by reports that Russia may have deployed additional military personnel and aircraft to Syria,\u201d said White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Tuesday.On Saturday, the US State Department announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, had spoken by telephone to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, and warned against expanding Russian military assistance to Syria. Kerry said the moves risked further inflaming the conflict and worsening the current refugee crisis, the State Department said.But Russia\u2019s role in Syria is being eclipsed to some extent by Iran\u2019s. In recent months Tehran has pushed Assad to follow a policy of retrenchment, accepting that parts of the country are now lost to his enemies and that he should consolidate his control over the area around Damascus and a strip running through Homs to the Mediterranean coast.On Wednesday, Syrian state TV reported that insurgents led by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaida\u2019s Syrian affiliate, had captured an airbase after a two-year siege, leaving almost the entire northern province of Idlib free of government forces.The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said insurgents had captured the Abu Zuhour base under the cover of the severe sandstorm that has raged across the country for the previous three days. Insurgents now control nearly the entire province, except for the predominantly Shia villages of Foua and Kfarya, which are in the hands of pro-government militia.Fighting is continuing meanwhile for Zabadani, north-west of Damascus, a strategic position for Assad\u2019s Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Talks on a ceasefire there have included a proposal that the town\u2019s defenders \u2013 from the Sunni Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham \u2013 be exchanged for the Shias of the two Idlib villages. This proposal is seen by some observers as introducing an explicitly sectarian element into the Syrian conflict.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Russia complains of 'strange hysteria' over its presence in Syria"},{"date": "2015-09-05T16:52:44Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden has criticised Russia for its crackdown on internet freedom and lax attitude to gay rights, despite having been granted asylum by the country.The National Security Agency whistleblower described Moscow\u2019s tightening grip over online activities and treatment of gay people as \u201cfundamentally wrong\u201d.The former US intelligence contractor was given a three-year residence permit in August 2014, but insisted that it was never his choice to go there. He said he would prefer to live in the US, although he cannot return without facing arrest for leaking to the Guardian classified documents revealing the vast scale of the country\u2019s surveillance programmes.The 32-year-old was accepting the Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression\u2019s Bjornson prize \u2013 which he was awarded for his work on the right to privacy \u2013 by videophone from Russia when he described the country\u2019s restrictions on the web as a \u201cmistake in policy\u201d. He said: \u201cIt\u2019s wrong in Russia, and it would be wrong anywhere.\u201cI\u2019ve been quite critical of [it] in the past and I\u2019ll continue to be in the future, because this drive that we see in the Russian government to control more and more the internet, to control more and more what people are seeing, even parts of personal lives, deciding what is the appropriate or inappropriate way for people to express their love for one another ... [is] fundamentally wrong.\u201dDespite his criticism of Russia, Snowden said he still felt free to express himself online. \u201cI do. And I think it\u2019s primarily in the context of the fact that most activities happen online. I mean, when people ask me where I live, the most honest answer is on the internet.\u201dBut he described the ever more restrictive use of intelligence monitoring by richer nations as useless and said the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January proved that surveillance does not necessarily keep citizens safe.He said: \u201cThey say: \u2018Well, these things are necessary to keep us safe\u2019. In the Charlie Hebdo attacks, for example, the intelligence services say: \u2018Oh yes, we knew who these people were\u2019. But it didn\u2019t stop the attack.\u201dSnowden, who left Hawaii in May 2013 for Hong Kong, where he leaked the trove of classified documents before leaving for Russia, said his life is now normal but he misses the US. He said: \u201cI mean, I would prefer to live in my own country. But exile is exile.\u201d", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "Norway", "NSA", "The NSA files"], "title": "Snowden criticises Russia for approach to internet and homosexuality"},{"date": "2015-08-25T10:26:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities briefly banned the entire Wikipedia site over a page relating to drug use which the site had refused to edit or delete.The ban was quickly lifted on Tuesday, before it had even gone into effect for most Russian internet users but not before the news had created a wave of panic in the country\u2019s online community. There is increasing concern in Russia about a crackdown on internet freedom.A court in a small town in southern Russia ordered that a Wikipedia page about charas, an Indian form of hashish, be banned as it contained harmful information. Because Wikipedia uses secure https protocol, some internet providers would have to ban the entire website. Late on Monday night, some Moscow internet users found Russian-language Wikipedia banned entirely, while for others it was still working, with a message from the website explaining how to circumvent a ban if it did come into place.In a statement on Tuesday, online watchdog Roskomnadzor said the decision to rescind the banning order came because the forbidden information about charas had been redacted. Wikipedia editors said the page remained the same.\u201cThis is an important case because it\u2019s part of the general offensive against https. Roskomnadzor and the FSB [security services] don\u2019t know what to do with it,\u201d said Andrei Soldatov, a journalist and author of Red Web, a book about the Russian internet. Soldatov said SORM, the system Russia uses for internet surveillance, does not work with the more secure https protocol, also used by sites such as Facebook and Gmail.On 1 September, a rule comes into effect which requires internet servers like Facebook and Twitter to store the data of all Russian users onshore. While Roskomnadzor has said it will not check compliance of major sites such as Facebook until next year, it is part of a drive to put pressure on the companies to keep servers in Russia, where data would be accessible by Russian authorities.Soldatov speculated that the move against Wikipedia could be part of a test of another strategy: by threatening the site with bans over single pages, the site could be forced off https to ensure that the whole site is not affected when only one page is banned. Soldatov said: \u201cThere are two options for https: the first is to have access to the data before encryption, which explains the demand to store servers in Russia. The second is to try to force services to give up on https, which is what is happening with Wikipedia.\u201dRussian authorities have become increasingly suspicious of the subversive powers of the internet in the three years since Vladimir Putin returned to the Kremlin for a third term as president in 2012. Protests in the run-up to his inauguration were largely organised on social media, and within a few months of his return to office he had signed a bill providing a list of banned sites.Earlier this year, Russia, China and a number of central Asian dictatorships submitted a proposal to the UN, clearly aimed at the US, calling for countries not to use the internet \u201cto interfere in the internal affairs of other states or with the aim of undermining their political, economic and social stability\u201d.", "tags": ["Russia", "Wikipedia", "Censorship", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "Russia briefly bans Wikipedia over page relating to drug use"},{"date": "2015-08-18T09:53:15Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The 2014 breakout hit Pride will finally be released in Russia, despite the country\u2019s stringent anti-gay laws. Related: Miners and LGBT activists who inspired hit film Pride reunite A distributor called Arthouse, known for releasing independent and foreign films, has taken on the British comedy, directed by Matthew Warchus, which premiered at last year\u2019s Cannes film festival.In Russia, laws against homosexuality have increased in recent years, leading to the outlawing, in 2013, of \u201cpropaganda\u201d that promotes \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d. Any film that features same-sex content must be given an 18+ certificate.Arthouse showcased the film\u2019s artwork on Twitter:\u0411\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043a\u0430\u044f \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0435\u0434\u0438\u044f \u00ab\u0413\u043e\u0440\u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u044c\u00bb \u043e \u0441\u043e\u0432\u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u043e\u0440\u044c\u0431\u0435 \u041b\u0413\u0411\u0422 \u0438 \u0448\u0430\u0445\u0442\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0432 \u0432 \u043a\u0438\u043d\u043e \u0441 \u0441\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0434\u043d\u044f\u0448\u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e \u0434\u043d\u044f! https://t.co/kRqWfdCMJb pic.twitter.com/SZ4nBcQjFVThe company was founded in March by Sam Klebanov, following the financial collapse of his previous company, Cinema Without Frontiers, which distributed Blue Is the Warmest Colour. Pride tells the story of an alliance between an LGBT support group and coalminers during the strike of 1984. It was a critical and commercial hit and picked up a Golden Globe nomination for best picture \u2013 musical or comedy. The narrative is bookended by scenes set at London\u2019s annual Pride parade. In Russia, Moscow Pride was banned for 100 years by the city courts in 2012.LGBT rights continue to be an issue in Russia, with the most recent attempt to curb homosexuality related to a proposed ban on same-sex emojis.", "tags": ["Pride", "Film", "Culture", "Russia", "LGBT rights", "Golden Globes 2015"], "title": "Pride to receive release in Russia despite anti-gay laws"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:27:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s foreign ministry has complained of a \u201cstrange hysteria\u201d over Moscow\u2019s actions in Syria, as western countries expressed concerns over apparent preparations for military intervention.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that \u201cRussia has never made a secret of its military-technical cooperation with Syria\u201d and confirmed that \u201cRussian military specialists are in Syria to help them master the weapons being supplied\u201d. She said there was nothing out of the ordinary about their presence.However, there have been a number of signs of more intensive Russian activity in Syria in recent weeks, including reported sightings of Russian jets and combat vehicles, claims of increased weapons deliveries, and even reports that prefabricated housing was being erected to pave the way for a major military presence. A number of photographs have been posted to social media networks from Tartus in eastern Syria by men who appear to be Russian contract soldiers. The Tartus naval base, which Russia has maintained since the 1970s, was previously a small and low-significance maintenance outpost, but has seen increased activity recently.The reports of growing Russian military activity in Syria were troubling, Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. \u201cI am concerned about reports about increased Russian military presence in Syria,\u201d Stoltenberg said. \u201cThat will not contribute to solving the conflict.\u201d Russia has insisted there is nothing out of the ordinary about the military assistance to the country, and Syrian government officials have also been playing down recent reports about an enhanced Russian military role, but insisting that Moscow remains a supportive ally.\u201cRussian experts are always present but in the last year they have been present to a greater degree,\u201d a Syrian official told Reuters. \u201cAll aspects of the relationship are currently being developed, including the military one.\u201d Related: 'Everyone wants to leave': death of hope drives young Syrians to Europe President Bashar al-Assad did not comment on the question when it was raised by Russian journalists who interviewed him in Damascus on Sunday. But on the diplomatic front, western officials in fact say they detect signs of greater readiness by Moscow to push for a negotiated solution to the Syrian crisis \u2013 in part because of its growing concerns about the threat from Islamic State.Putin is due to travel to the UN general assembly for the first time in a decade later this month, and some analysts speculate he may try to use the current concert over Isis and the refugee crisis to call for an international coalition against terrorism, involving Russia. \u201cIf additional measures in the interests of boosting anti-terrorism efforts are required on our part, this issue will be considered accordingly, but exclusively on the basis of international law and Russian legislature,\u201d Zakharova said.Moscow denounced as \u201cinternational boorishness\u201d a move by Nato member Bulgaria to deny overflight rights to Russian planes travelling to Syria. Moscow says the planes contain humanitarian aid. On Wednesday Iran granted permission for Russian planes to overfly its territory on their way to Syria.\u201cWe\u2019ve indicated that the United States is concerned by reports that Russia may have deployed additional military personnel and aircraft to Syria,\u201d said White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Tuesday.On Saturday, the US State Department announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, had spoken by telephone to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, and warned against expanding Russian military assistance to Syria. Kerry said the moves risked further inflaming the conflict and worsening the current refugee crisis, the State Department said.But Russia\u2019s role in Syria is being eclipsed to some extent by Iran\u2019s. In recent months Tehran has pushed Assad to follow a policy of retrenchment, accepting that parts of the country are now lost to his enemies and that he should consolidate his control over the area around Damascus and a strip running through Homs to the Mediterranean coast.On Wednesday, Syrian state TV reported that insurgents led by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaida\u2019s Syrian affiliate, had captured an airbase after a two-year siege, leaving almost the entire northern province of Idlib free of government forces.The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said insurgents had captured the Abu Zuhour base under the cover of the severe sandstorm that has raged across the country for the previous three days. Insurgents now control nearly the entire province, except for the predominantly Shia villages of Foua and Kfarya, which are in the hands of pro-government militia.Fighting is continuing meanwhile for Zabadani, north-west of Damascus, a strategic position for Assad\u2019s Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Talks on a ceasefire there have included a proposal that the town\u2019s defenders \u2013 from the Sunni Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham \u2013 be exchanged for the Shias of the two Idlib villages. This proposal is seen by some observers as introducing an explicitly sectarian element into the Syrian conflict.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Russia complains of 'strange hysteria' over its presence in Syria"},{"date": "2015-09-05T16:52:44Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden has criticised Russia for its crackdown on internet freedom and lax attitude to gay rights, despite having been granted asylum by the country.The National Security Agency whistleblower described Moscow\u2019s tightening grip over online activities and treatment of gay people as \u201cfundamentally wrong\u201d.The former US intelligence contractor was given a three-year residence permit in August 2014, but insisted that it was never his choice to go there. He said he would prefer to live in the US, although he cannot return without facing arrest for leaking to the Guardian classified documents revealing the vast scale of the country\u2019s surveillance programmes.The 32-year-old was accepting the Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression\u2019s Bjornson prize \u2013 which he was awarded for his work on the right to privacy \u2013 by videophone from Russia when he described the country\u2019s restrictions on the web as a \u201cmistake in policy\u201d. He said: \u201cIt\u2019s wrong in Russia, and it would be wrong anywhere.\u201cI\u2019ve been quite critical of [it] in the past and I\u2019ll continue to be in the future, because this drive that we see in the Russian government to control more and more the internet, to control more and more what people are seeing, even parts of personal lives, deciding what is the appropriate or inappropriate way for people to express their love for one another ... [is] fundamentally wrong.\u201dDespite his criticism of Russia, Snowden said he still felt free to express himself online. \u201cI do. And I think it\u2019s primarily in the context of the fact that most activities happen online. I mean, when people ask me where I live, the most honest answer is on the internet.\u201dBut he described the ever more restrictive use of intelligence monitoring by richer nations as useless and said the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January proved that surveillance does not necessarily keep citizens safe.He said: \u201cThey say: \u2018Well, these things are necessary to keep us safe\u2019. In the Charlie Hebdo attacks, for example, the intelligence services say: \u2018Oh yes, we knew who these people were\u2019. But it didn\u2019t stop the attack.\u201dSnowden, who left Hawaii in May 2013 for Hong Kong, where he leaked the trove of classified documents before leaving for Russia, said his life is now normal but he misses the US. He said: \u201cI mean, I would prefer to live in my own country. But exile is exile.\u201d", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "Norway", "NSA", "The NSA files"], "title": "Snowden criticises Russia for approach to internet and homosexuality"},{"date": "2015-08-25T10:26:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities briefly banned the entire Wikipedia site over a page relating to drug use which the site had refused to edit or delete.The ban was quickly lifted on Tuesday, before it had even gone into effect for most Russian internet users but not before the news had created a wave of panic in the country\u2019s online community. There is increasing concern in Russia about a crackdown on internet freedom.A court in a small town in southern Russia ordered that a Wikipedia page about charas, an Indian form of hashish, be banned as it contained harmful information. Because Wikipedia uses secure https protocol, some internet providers would have to ban the entire website. Late on Monday night, some Moscow internet users found Russian-language Wikipedia banned entirely, while for others it was still working, with a message from the website explaining how to circumvent a ban if it did come into place.In a statement on Tuesday, online watchdog Roskomnadzor said the decision to rescind the banning order came because the forbidden information about charas had been redacted. Wikipedia editors said the page remained the same.\u201cThis is an important case because it\u2019s part of the general offensive against https. Roskomnadzor and the FSB [security services] don\u2019t know what to do with it,\u201d said Andrei Soldatov, a journalist and author of Red Web, a book about the Russian internet. Soldatov said SORM, the system Russia uses for internet surveillance, does not work with the more secure https protocol, also used by sites such as Facebook and Gmail.On 1 September, a rule comes into effect which requires internet servers like Facebook and Twitter to store the data of all Russian users onshore. While Roskomnadzor has said it will not check compliance of major sites such as Facebook until next year, it is part of a drive to put pressure on the companies to keep servers in Russia, where data would be accessible by Russian authorities.Soldatov speculated that the move against Wikipedia could be part of a test of another strategy: by threatening the site with bans over single pages, the site could be forced off https to ensure that the whole site is not affected when only one page is banned. Soldatov said: \u201cThere are two options for https: the first is to have access to the data before encryption, which explains the demand to store servers in Russia. The second is to try to force services to give up on https, which is what is happening with Wikipedia.\u201dRussian authorities have become increasingly suspicious of the subversive powers of the internet in the three years since Vladimir Putin returned to the Kremlin for a third term as president in 2012. Protests in the run-up to his inauguration were largely organised on social media, and within a few months of his return to office he had signed a bill providing a list of banned sites.Earlier this year, Russia, China and a number of central Asian dictatorships submitted a proposal to the UN, clearly aimed at the US, calling for countries not to use the internet \u201cto interfere in the internal affairs of other states or with the aim of undermining their political, economic and social stability\u201d.", "tags": ["Russia", "Wikipedia", "Censorship", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "Russia briefly bans Wikipedia over page relating to drug use"},{"date": "2015-08-18T09:53:15Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The 2014 breakout hit Pride will finally be released in Russia, despite the country\u2019s stringent anti-gay laws. Related: Miners and LGBT activists who inspired hit film Pride reunite A distributor called Arthouse, known for releasing independent and foreign films, has taken on the British comedy, directed by Matthew Warchus, which premiered at last year\u2019s Cannes film festival.In Russia, laws against homosexuality have increased in recent years, leading to the outlawing, in 2013, of \u201cpropaganda\u201d that promotes \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d. Any film that features same-sex content must be given an 18+ certificate.Arthouse showcased the film\u2019s artwork on Twitter:\u0411\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043a\u0430\u044f \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0435\u0434\u0438\u044f \u00ab\u0413\u043e\u0440\u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u044c\u00bb \u043e \u0441\u043e\u0432\u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u043e\u0440\u044c\u0431\u0435 \u041b\u0413\u0411\u0422 \u0438 \u0448\u0430\u0445\u0442\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0432 \u0432 \u043a\u0438\u043d\u043e \u0441 \u0441\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0434\u043d\u044f\u0448\u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e \u0434\u043d\u044f! https://t.co/kRqWfdCMJb pic.twitter.com/SZ4nBcQjFVThe company was founded in March by Sam Klebanov, following the financial collapse of his previous company, Cinema Without Frontiers, which distributed Blue Is the Warmest Colour. Pride tells the story of an alliance between an LGBT support group and coalminers during the strike of 1984. It was a critical and commercial hit and picked up a Golden Globe nomination for best picture \u2013 musical or comedy. The narrative is bookended by scenes set at London\u2019s annual Pride parade. In Russia, Moscow Pride was banned for 100 years by the city courts in 2012.LGBT rights continue to be an issue in Russia, with the most recent attempt to curb homosexuality related to a proposed ban on same-sex emojis.", "tags": ["Pride", "Film", "Culture", "Russia", "LGBT rights", "Golden Globes 2015"], "title": "Pride to receive release in Russia despite anti-gay laws"},{"date": "2015-08-03T06:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "World powers are reporting surges in airspace violations and instances where aircraft are scrambled to intercept foreign jets, amid a sharp rise in geopolitical tensions in Europe and Asia.Nato member aircraft were forced to conduct more than 500 scrambles over Europe in 2014 \u2013 a fourfold increase on the previous year. Nearly 85% of these were to intercept Russian aircraft. This year, there have already been more than 300 scrambles, according to data provided by Nato to the Guardian. These are some of the highest numbers since the end of the cold war.Russia alleges that Nato sorties near its borders doubled last year. Nato called the claim \u201cdeliberately vague\u201d. Related: Nato\u2019s war games reduce global tensions, not escalate them | Letters Elsewhere, Japan has been scrambling aircraft in record numbers because of Chinese activity. Airspace violations by Turkish aircraft over Greek waters increased three and a half times last year compared with the previous two years.Although nearly all of these interventions are described by those close to operations as \u201calmost routine\u201d, several incidents reveal there is a risk of escalation because of the sheer volume of incidents. Despite the increase in interceptions, Nato will be halving the number of aircraft used in its Baltic air-policing mission later this year.A scramble doesn\u2019t imply a breach of sovereign airspace or military aviation rules. In fact, in most cases, there is no breach. Last year, there were 10 incursions by Russian aircraft into airspace belonging to Nato members. Eight of these were over islands belonging to Estonia (six over remote Vaindloo alone). The others were into Norwegian and Polish airspace in March and April respectively, and both lasted seconds.There have been no incursions recorded by Nato\u2019s 28 members in 2015. A Russian aircraft did, though, briefly enter airspace belonging to Finland, which is not a Nato member, on 26 June. While Swedish armed forces have counted nine incursions into Sweden\u2019s sovereign airspace so far this year. The country\u2019s airspace was breached 12 times last year. Nearly all these incursions into Swedish airspace, however, were not by Russian aircraft.A Nato official explained to the Guardian that it was difficult to understand what motivated Russia and to know for certain if these events were provocations or could be explained by other factors such as weather.What is clear is there has been an increase in Russian activity. In comparison with current levels of activity, there were, for example, only seven Russian incursions into Estonian airspace between 2006 and 2013.Russian activity has included several more provocative \u2013 albeit isolated \u2013 incidents. These have included aircraft flying several times over military ships and bombers taking unconventional paths in proximity to US, Portuguese and British airspace.But, according to Russia, this is all driven by an increase in the activities of \u201cNato countries and their partners\u201d encroaching on its airspace.A Russian government official told the Guardian that Russian air force flights, consisting mostly of training sorties in international airspace, needed to be seen within the context of \u201ca drastic increase in the activity of foreign reconnaissance and combat planes near Russian borders\u201d.According to data collected by Russian authorities, and shared with the Guardian, Nato carried out more than 3,000 tactical aviation sorties near Russian borders in 2014, more than double the previous year. Nato patrols over Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia increased 3.5 times.However, according to Lieutenant-Colonel Jay Janzen, chief of media operations at Nato\u2019s Supreme HQ Allied Powers Europe, Russia is regularly using disinformation and propaganda to confuse the public regarding current events.\u201cScrambles are launched in response to Russian activity. The sole aim is to preserve the integrity of Nato European airspace and to safeguard Nato nations from air attacks.\u201dHe acknowledged that Nato had increased the numbers of surveillance flights in recent months, but insisted they remained \u201chundreds of kilometres from Russia\u2019s borders\u201d.Despite the increased interactions with Russian aircrafts, Nato will be scaling back the number of the Baltic patrolling mission\u2019s aircraft to about eight this autumn, from 16. Before events in Ukraine, the patrolling mission consisted of four aircraft. Janzen said the reduction was appropriate to the scale of the task.There are mitigating factors at play in the surge in airspace incursions. National aviation boundaries are tight in eastern Europe, and the Ukraine conflict has heightened political sensitivities, with some capitals occasionally keen to exaggerate the risk.The single biggest reason for the huge number of scrambles is the fact that Russian aircraft often do not abide by international conventions, western officials say.Russian military aircraft often keep their transponders switched off and, as a result, don\u2019t \u201csquawk\u201d, leaving air traffic controllers in the dark. They also do not share their flight plans.In an analysis by the European Leadership Network (ELN) of 66 incidents, one of the three \u201chigh-risk\u201d incidents recorded between March 2014 and March 2015 involved a near-collision between a Scandinavian Airlines 737 with 132 passengers taking off from Copenhagen and a Russian reconnaissance aircraft. This was due to the latter not broadcasting its position.The Russian government said: \u201cRussian pilots are training under strict orders to follow the requirements of international and national laws and rules. The flights take place over uninhabited areas, mostly open seas, without violating the state borders. Russian aircraft are constantly shadowed by Nato fighters. Russia respects all international and national restrictions imposed on such activities, and will do so in the future.\u201dRussia doesn\u2019t only dice with European airspace. Last year, Japan initiated 943 scrambles \u2013 one incident short of the highest figure on record (in 1984). Pracically all involved Russian (473) and Chinese (464) warplanes.In 2000, Japan was involved in only 155 interceptions. Most of the increased activity has coincided with a significant rise in China\u2019s military spending (from less than 50bn yuan in 1990 to 850bn yuan last year), increased capabilities, and in more recent years, intensified presence and activity on land, in waters and in the airspace near Japan on the back of an ongoing dispute over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.Of the 173 interceptions in the first three months of 2015, 57 were of Russian aircrafts compared to 114 incidents involving Chinese aircrafts.One characteristic of China\u2019s behaviour, according to several western aviation experts, is that its aircrafts are more \u201caggressive\u201d than Russia\u2019s.Half a world away from the East China Sea, another disputed area has seen an increase in airspace violations.In 2014, Greece\u2019s military authorities recorded 2,244 violations of Greek airspace by Turkish aircraft, three and a half times more incursions than in 2013. This year, 1,204 violations have already been tracked by the Hellenic national defence general staff.The vast majority of interceptions have taken place over a strip of the Aegean sea, an area disputed since the 1970s. Greece and Turkey contest the extent of Greek airspace around the islands, Athens claiming 10 miles while Ankara only recognises six.A spike in tensions between Greece and Turkey over the Aegean dispute is not unprecedented. In 2006, a mid-air collision between Greek and Turkish fighter planes risked a crisis. A Greek pilot died in the accident. While in 1987 and in 1996, the two countries almost went to war.A Nato official told the Guardian that the Aegean dispute was a matter for Greece and Turkey.There has also been an increase in the number of interceptions in North America. North American Aerospace Defense Command (Norad) has intercepted and visually identified Russian long-range aviation about 25 times over the past five years, or on average about five times per year. That number doubled to about 10 in 2014, with particular spikes in July and early August, which Norad believes is related to training.A Norad official said it was important to note that, in all these instances, Russian aircraft remained in international airspace at all times.In the two separate incidents recorded in July this year \u2013 around the south coast of Alaska, near the Aleutian islands, and off the central California coast \u2013 at no time did the Russian bombers involved enter North American sovereign airspace. *All figures for aircraft interceptions in this piece are approximations because of security reasons\u2022 This article was amended on 2 September 2015 to clarify that most of the incursions into Swedish airspace in 2014-15 were not by Russian aircraft.", "tags": ["Nato", "Defence policy", "Royal Air Force", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Japan", "China", "Turkey", "Greece", "Finland", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Nato reports surge in jet interceptions as Russia tensions increase"},{"date": "2015-09-23T22:10:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s investigative committee has reopened its case on the 1918 murder of the Romanov royal family after the Russian Orthodox church demanded further testing of what are believed to be their remains.The church\u2019s hesitancy to allow the remains of two final members of the family to be buried has divided the Romanovs\u2019 descendants, with one branch of relatives supporting the call for more tests and another expressing impatience with the hold-up. In a statement on Wednesday, spokesman Vladimir Markin said that, at the suggestion of a working group created this summer by the Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, the investigative committee had reopened the case to conduct additional identity testing on the remains using previously unavailable evidence.Investigators will test remains thought to belong to Crown Prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, Grand Duchess Maria, against bloodstains on the uniform of their great-grandfather, Emperor Alexander II, who was killed in a bombing by radicals in St Petersburg in 1881. They will also compare the remains to those of their aunt, Grand Duchess Yelizaveta Fyodorovna, and study newly discovered materials from a 1918-1924 investigation into the murder by the White Guards who fought the Bolsheviks. As part of the case, the bodies of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Nicholas II and his wife, Alexandra Fyodorovna, would need to be exhumed from their tomb in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral, Markin said.Opened in 1993 after the first remains were found in Yekaterinburg, the murder case was closed in 1998 because those who committed the crime were dead. Earlier this month, the working group suggested burying Alexei and Maria with the rest of their family on 18 October, but reportedly backed off from these plans after the powerful Russian Orthodox church questioned the authenticity of the remains.  Related: Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children' Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917 and was held by the Bolsheviks after his cousin George V \u2013 Queen Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 refused him asylum in Britain over political concerns. He, his family and four attendants were executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg, and their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft. But the Bolsheviks later removed the remains, burned them, corroded them with acid and reburied them in an unknown location. For the next eight decades, rumours persisted that Princess Anastasia or other family members had survived.The Romanovs\u2019 suspected remains were finally unearthed in 1991, and in 2008 US and Russian experts confirmed through genetic testing that they belonged to the tsar, his wife and three of his daughters.But the Russian Orthodox church never recognised the remains as those of the royal family, and when they were buried in St Petersburg\u2019s Peter and Paul Cathedral in 1998 at a ceremony attended by the then president, Boris Yeltsin, the priest avoided speaking their names as he read the funeral rites.In 2007, more remains were discovered in a separate burial site near the first, and genetic testing reportedly confirmed that they belonged to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed. They have been kept in a state repository awaiting burial.A geneticist from the Russian Academy of Sciences told the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper that testing on the remains had left \u201cno doubt that all the members of the tsar\u2019s family have been discovered\u201d.But speaking to the Guardian earlier this month, a spokesman for the Russian Orthodox church, Vsevolod Chaplin, said it wanted further testing of both the remains buried in Peter and Paul Cathedral and those in the state depository, arguing that previous investigations of their authenticity were opaque. For the church, a case of mistaken identity is not permissible.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d Chaplin said. \u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to. For this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure.\u201dThe church\u2019s request is backed by one set of Romanov descendants, headed by Nicholas II\u2019s great-great-granddaughter, Princess Maria Vladimirovna, who lives in Spain. But it is criticised by another branch, led by Prince Dmitry Romanovich, which does not consider Maria Vladimirovna to be the rightful heir to the tsarist family and which has welcomed the move to bury Alexei and Maria. A representative of this branch told reporters earlier this month that some family members had been planning to come to the burial in Russia and said there was still \u201cbitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains\u201d.Although the Romanovs\u2019 descendants live abroad, they occasionally travel to Russia, where they are still revered by some Orthodox faithful and far-right groups. A regional lawmaker this summer sent a letter to both branches inviting them to resettle in Russia or in annexed Crimea. ", "tags": ["Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russia reopens criminal case on 1918 Romanov royal family murders"},{"date": "2015-09-22T15:59:08Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The man once nicknamed \u201cPutin\u2019s banker\u201d for helping put the Russian president in the Kremlin has filed a $12bn (\u00a37.82bn) compensation claim against Russia, which he accuses of illegally and unfairly ruining his business empire and stealing his fortune. Sergei Pugachev, who secretly left London in June after a judge ordered his assets to be seized and passports to be confiscated, still fears for his life, his lawyers said. The former banker believes he is being followed by Moscow-financed spies who, he says, have threatened him and his family since he fell out of favour. A heavyweight team of defence lawyers from four countries \u2013 Britain, France, America and Switzerland \u2013 gathered in Paris on Tuesday to outline the international arbitration claim against Russia. They are hoping the claim will be heard in the permanent court of arbitration in the Hague. Announcing that Pugachev had successfully registered his claim against the Russian Federation, J Michael McNutt, Pugachev\u2019s adviser, said: \u201cHe is not the first and he is certainly not the last, but hopefully we can get some form of recompense as a result of this action.\u201dMoscow is seeking Pugachev\u2019s arrest under an Interpol warrant that accuses him of embezzlement and misappropriation of public funds. He strenuously denies the accusations, claiming that Russia, with the backing of Putin, has deliberately targeted him with \u201csham criminal and civil proceedings\u201d. L\u00e9a Forestier, a member of Pugachev\u2019s French legal team, said the businessman was living in fear for his life.\u201cHe is taking the threats seriously and is living with bodyguards. It\u2019s very harrowing being followed all the time and he has to be careful any time he goes anywhere. It\u2019s not easy for his family who are in London,\u201d she said.  Pugachev, who has Russian and French nationality, defied a court order to remain in Britain before the summer after finding what his lawyers described as \u201cblack boxes\u201d under his car and other family vehicles. He reported the boxes to the police fearing they were explosives, but it was later suggested they were tracking devices. Pugachev\u2019s partner, Alexandra Tolstoy, said: \u201cWhat was most upsetting was that there were these things under a car used only by myself and our three young children. It was horrible.\u201d McNutt said lawyers had proof that Pugachev was still being tailed. \u201cI was with him on Saturday and we were being followed here in France. Mr Pugachev was again followed yesterday in Paris.\u201d  He added that lawyers were considering an additional complaint against Moscow for harassment and violation of human rights laws. Pugachev was once a loyal ally to Putin, helping him ascend to the Kremlin in 1999 during the last days of Boris Yeltsin\u2019s time as president. But relations between them cooled, and Pugachev claims that since he left Russia in 2011, the government first damaged and then cherry-picked the best parts of his $15bn business empire. That included two major shipyards \u2013 constructing military ships and icebreakers \u2013 the world\u2019s biggest coal mine, and prime real estate in Moscow and St Petersburg. Related: Sergei Pugachev: 'Putin's banker' now lives in fear of man he put into power  \u201cThe Russian Federation also has instituted and pursued sham civil and criminal proceedings against Mr Pugachev with the expressed intent to ruin him and his family,\u201d his lawyers said. They added the \u201cpersecution and harassment\u201d of their client had continued outside of Russia \u2013 resulting in a loss of investment abroad. The Kremlin claims Pugachev stole hundreds of millions of dollars in loans of public money pumped into the Mezhprombank, that he founded in the 1990s, during the 2008 financial crisis. After a British court granted a Russian request for his assets to be frozen and ordered him to remain in the UK, he slipped out of the country, first to Paris then to the south of France. \u201cOver the past few years, Russia has pursued a multi-pronged attack against me, my family, and my investments. I refuse to be intimidated by Russia\u2019s tactics, and I look forward to having an international arbitral tribunal assess Russia\u2019s conduct by applying international standards,\u201d Pugachev said. In 2014, the international arbitration tribunal at the Hague ordered Russia to pay former shareholders of the Yukos oil company run by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, $50bn in compensation for unlawful expropriation. Moscow has appealed against the judgement.Putin\u2019s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said \u201cno comment\u201d to questions on Monday, but that official investigations were continuing. He insisted Russia\u2019s moves against Pugachev had nothing to do with his relationship with the Russian president.\u201cInvestigative or seach actions, of course, aren\u2019t related to the extent to which there were friendly or unfriendly relations [with Putin],\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "'Putin's banker' files $12bn compensation claim against Russia"},{"date": "2015-09-20T20:20:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian government has helped fund a conference in Moscow to bring together separatists from the United States and eastern Ukraine, despite cracking down on its own dissidents.Opposition to the US and European Union was the factor unifying the assortment of guests at the \u201cDialogue of nations: the right to self-determination and the construction of a multipolar world\u201d conference at the President hotel in downtown Moscow on Sunday. Among international participants were representatives of Sinn F\u00e9in, the Catalan Solidarity for Independence party and Italy\u2019s European Communitarian party Millennium, as well as separatist groups from Hawaii and Puerto Rico and the US-based radical black power Uhuru Movement.Several representatives also spoke on behalf of the Russia-backed Donetsk and Luhansk people\u2019s republics in eastern Ukraine, where the conflict between the pro-Russian rebels and the Kiev government has killed more than 6,500 people since April 2014.  Related: Colony, state or independence: Puerto Rico's status anxiety adds to debt crisis Although no Kremlin officials were present, state civic chamber member Georgy Fyodorov came to argue that: \u201cAmerica is an instrument, a huge hooligan or policeman that along with England is executing the will of global mega-corporations.\u201dSpeakers at the conference vigorously blamed Washington for a host of ills including the war in eastern Ukraine and the refugee crisis in Europe, but did not discuss the Kremlin\u2019s own role in these events.According to organisers from the Anti-Globalist Movement of Russia, funding for the gathering was provided in part by a state grant from the National Charity Fund, which was founded as the National Military Fund in 1999 by then-PM Vladimir Putin. The National Charity Fund gets money from large state-owned and public companies and oligarchs. Participants were offered airfare and accommodations.While Putin\u2019s government has cracked down on \u201cforeign agents\u201d at home, it has also promoted division within Europe and the United States. But conference organiser Alexander Ionov denied that Moscow could be using the conference to forward its own political goals.Despite the fact that Russia has made no secret of its arms shipments to Bashar al-Assad\u2019s regime in Syria and has reportedly provided weapons and funding to the eastern Ukraine rebels, Ionov argued the United States was inciting these conflicts in its own interests.\u201cIf we look at the crisis in Syria, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid. If you look at the crisis in Ukraine, the United States delivers weapons while Russia delivers humanitarian aid,\u201d Ionov said.The Kremlin has said truck convoys to Ukraine and military flights to Syria have brought only food and supplies, although satellite imagery, video and photographs from Syria have pointed to a Russian military buildup there in recent weeks.The Russian government has recently been cracking down on activists at home with a law against separatism that Putin signed at the end of 2013. Last week the Tatar activist Rafis Kashapov was sentenced to three years in a prison colony on charges of separatism and hate speech for sharing anti-Putin social media posts. The Moscow-based Sova Centre, which studies extremism and hate crimes, called his conviction a violation of free speech, and human rights organisation Memorial declared him a prisoner of conscience.Also on 15 September, a court in Krasnodar began hearing the case of local opposition activist Darya Polyudova, who was detained after a \u201cMarch for the Federalisation of Kuban\u201d in August 2014 and charged with separatism.Ionov said these activists were not anti-colonial separatists like those at the conference and argued the Russian government had to be able to defend itself from opposition groups funded by western organisations. Several Russian NGOs who received international grants have been forced to close under a 2012 law regulating \u201cforeign agents\u201d. Related: Puerto Rico movement pitches solution to economic woes: rejoin Spain Irish participants at the conference told the Guardian that they had no Kremlin links and were simply taking an opportunity to promote their cause. Sinn F\u00e9in member Diarmaid Mac Dubhghlais compared the eastern Ukraine conflict to the \u201cIreland of years ago\u201d, arguing that the pro-Russian rebels were fighting a \u201cfascist government\u201d in Kiev.\u201cIn Ireland, we accepted help from Muammar Gaddafi,\u201d said Michael McLaughlin of the Irish Republican Socialist party. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in a battle for national liberation you don\u2019t question the background of the people helping you.\u201dMeanwhile, several thousand people attended a rally \u201cfor changeability of government\u201d on Sunday organised by the liberal opposition, even though local authorities only allowed it to be held far outside the city centre. The opposition failed to win any seats in regional elections last weekend after it was disqualified on questionable grounds in all but one province.The north American groups at the conference focused on their struggle against the poverty and environmental destruction they said was caused by US colonisation. While Ram\u00f3n Nenadich of the Puerto Rican group Borinken and Lanny Sinkin, a representative of the self-declared King Silva of Hawaii, said their struggle was non-violent, Omali Yeshitela of the Uhuru Movement said American imperialism could not be overcome by peaceful means.\u201cWe call on you to recognise the right of African people to engage in armed defence against American colonialism, and we would like to express our profound appreciation to the Anti-Globalisation movement of Russia,\u201d he told attendees. \u201cWe are convinced that we are on the right side of history, we are convinced that we will win, we are convinced that we are winning. Uhuru!\u201d", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe", "Vladimir Putin", "World news", "Sinn F\u00e9in", "US news", "Politics", "Ukraine"], "title": "Russia funds Moscow conference for US, EU and Ukraine separatists"},{"date": "2015-09-11T18:40:45Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The Russian Orthodox Church has demanded further testing of remains thought to belong to the son and daughter of Russia\u2019s last emperor, Tsar Nicholas II, disrupting the government\u2019s plans to rebury them in St Petersburg next month.A working group created by the prime minister Dmitry Medvedev in July proposed on Friday to bury crown prince Alexei Romanov and his sister, grand duchess Maria, with the remains of their family in the iconic Peter and Paul Cathedral on 18 October. But Medvedev\u2019s spokeswoman later said the date for their burial would only be decided after additional consultation with the Russian Orthodox Church, reported news agency RIA Novosti. Church spokesman Vsevolod Chaplin said the working group had agreed to further testing of the remains to prove their authenticity.\u201cPeople have questions. We want further investigation so that any tests are done in the presence of church officials,\u201d said Chaplin, adding that the church also wanted to do further testing on those remains already buried in the cathedral.The church has refused to recognise the results of DNA testing that found the remains do indeed belong to the royal family, delaying the process of burying Alexei and Maria, which have been held in a state repository since 2007. The current head of the Russian Imperial House, grand duchess Maria Vladimirovna, also considers the burial of these remains \u201cpremature,\u201d a spokesman told news agency RSN.\u201cThese people have been canonised, and if their remains are found they will be considered holy relics that believers will pray to, for this reason it\u2019s very important to make sure,\u201d said Chaplin.Several descendants of the tsar\u2019s family who now live abroad had already been planning to come to Russia for the October burial before the latest complications arose.\u201cWe\u2019re very happy this story is coming to an end, but at the same time there\u2019s bitterness over the fact that the church hasn\u2019t recognised the remains,\u201d Ivan Artsishevsky, a spokesman for the relatives, told news agency Interfax on Friday.Tsar Nicholas II abdicated the throne in 1917, ending three centuries of rule by the Romanov dynasty, and sought asylum in Britain, but was refused by his cousin George V \u2013 Elizabeth II\u2019s grandfather \u2013 over political concerns. Held in captivity by the Bolsheviks, the family was executed by firing squad in the early hours of 17 July 1918 at a house in Yekaterinburg. Their bodies were thrown into a mineshaft, burned and then buried.The first remains were found in Yekaterinburg in 1979, but remained buried until the end of the Soviet Union. In 2008, US and Russian experts confirmed that the remains unearthed in 1991 belonged to the tsar by matching DNA samples from the skeletons with those from living relatives and from objects such as a blood-stained shirt worn by Nicholas II.The tsar, his wife Alexandra, daughters Anastasia, Olga and Tatiana and several servants were buried in St Petersburg in 1998 at a ceremony held by the president, Boris Yeltsin. Remains thought to belong to Alexei and Maria, who were 13 and 19 when they were killed, were discovered 43 miles away from the others in 2007. Russian investigators have ruled the remains are authentic based on genetic testing.In a controversial decision, the Russian Orthodox Church canonised the Romanov family, which is revered by many right-wing groups but considered autocrats by others, in 2000. The church has grown increasingly influential during the 15 years that president Vladimir Putin, who is often pictured with the patriarch, has been in office.", "tags": ["Russia", "Europe"], "title": "Russia agrees to further testing over 'remains of Romanov children'"},{"date": "2015-09-09T16:27:35Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia\u2019s foreign ministry has complained of a \u201cstrange hysteria\u201d over Moscow\u2019s actions in Syria, as western countries expressed concerns over apparent preparations for military intervention.Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that \u201cRussia has never made a secret of its military-technical cooperation with Syria\u201d and confirmed that \u201cRussian military specialists are in Syria to help them master the weapons being supplied\u201d. She said there was nothing out of the ordinary about their presence.However, there have been a number of signs of more intensive Russian activity in Syria in recent weeks, including reported sightings of Russian jets and combat vehicles, claims of increased weapons deliveries, and even reports that prefabricated housing was being erected to pave the way for a major military presence. A number of photographs have been posted to social media networks from Tartus in eastern Syria by men who appear to be Russian contract soldiers. The Tartus naval base, which Russia has maintained since the 1970s, was previously a small and low-significance maintenance outpost, but has seen increased activity recently.The reports of growing Russian military activity in Syria were troubling, Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. \u201cI am concerned about reports about increased Russian military presence in Syria,\u201d Stoltenberg said. \u201cThat will not contribute to solving the conflict.\u201d Russia has insisted there is nothing out of the ordinary about the military assistance to the country, and Syrian government officials have also been playing down recent reports about an enhanced Russian military role, but insisting that Moscow remains a supportive ally.\u201cRussian experts are always present but in the last year they have been present to a greater degree,\u201d a Syrian official told Reuters. \u201cAll aspects of the relationship are currently being developed, including the military one.\u201d Related: 'Everyone wants to leave': death of hope drives young Syrians to Europe President Bashar al-Assad did not comment on the question when it was raised by Russian journalists who interviewed him in Damascus on Sunday. But on the diplomatic front, western officials in fact say they detect signs of greater readiness by Moscow to push for a negotiated solution to the Syrian crisis \u2013 in part because of its growing concerns about the threat from Islamic State.Putin is due to travel to the UN general assembly for the first time in a decade later this month, and some analysts speculate he may try to use the current concert over Isis and the refugee crisis to call for an international coalition against terrorism, involving Russia. \u201cIf additional measures in the interests of boosting anti-terrorism efforts are required on our part, this issue will be considered accordingly, but exclusively on the basis of international law and Russian legislature,\u201d Zakharova said.Moscow denounced as \u201cinternational boorishness\u201d a move by Nato member Bulgaria to deny overflight rights to Russian planes travelling to Syria. Moscow says the planes contain humanitarian aid. On Wednesday Iran granted permission for Russian planes to overfly its territory on their way to Syria.\u201cWe\u2019ve indicated that the United States is concerned by reports that Russia may have deployed additional military personnel and aircraft to Syria,\u201d said White House spokesman Josh Earnest on Tuesday.On Saturday, the US State Department announced that the secretary of state, John Kerry, had spoken by telephone to his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, and warned against expanding Russian military assistance to Syria. Kerry said the moves risked further inflaming the conflict and worsening the current refugee crisis, the State Department said.But Russia\u2019s role in Syria is being eclipsed to some extent by Iran\u2019s. In recent months Tehran has pushed Assad to follow a policy of retrenchment, accepting that parts of the country are now lost to his enemies and that he should consolidate his control over the area around Damascus and a strip running through Homs to the Mediterranean coast.On Wednesday, Syrian state TV reported that insurgents led by Jabhat al-Nusra, al-Qaida\u2019s Syrian affiliate, had captured an airbase after a two-year siege, leaving almost the entire northern province of Idlib free of government forces.The UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said insurgents had captured the Abu Zuhour base under the cover of the severe sandstorm that has raged across the country for the previous three days. Insurgents now control nearly the entire province, except for the predominantly Shia villages of Foua and Kfarya, which are in the hands of pro-government militia.Fighting is continuing meanwhile for Zabadani, north-west of Damascus, a strategic position for Assad\u2019s Lebanese ally Hezbollah. Talks on a ceasefire there have included a proposal that the town\u2019s defenders \u2013 from the Sunni Islamist group Ahrar al-Sham \u2013 be exchanged for the Shias of the two Idlib villages. This proposal is seen by some observers as introducing an explicitly sectarian element into the Syrian conflict.", "tags": ["Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Russia", "Europe", "US foreign policy", "US news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Russia complains of 'strange hysteria' over its presence in Syria"},{"date": "2015-09-05T16:52:44Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Edward Snowden has criticised Russia for its crackdown on internet freedom and lax attitude to gay rights, despite having been granted asylum by the country.The National Security Agency whistleblower described Moscow\u2019s tightening grip over online activities and treatment of gay people as \u201cfundamentally wrong\u201d.The former US intelligence contractor was given a three-year residence permit in August 2014, but insisted that it was never his choice to go there. He said he would prefer to live in the US, although he cannot return without facing arrest for leaking to the Guardian classified documents revealing the vast scale of the country\u2019s surveillance programmes.The 32-year-old was accepting the Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression\u2019s Bjornson prize \u2013 which he was awarded for his work on the right to privacy \u2013 by videophone from Russia when he described the country\u2019s restrictions on the web as a \u201cmistake in policy\u201d. He said: \u201cIt\u2019s wrong in Russia, and it would be wrong anywhere.\u201cI\u2019ve been quite critical of [it] in the past and I\u2019ll continue to be in the future, because this drive that we see in the Russian government to control more and more the internet, to control more and more what people are seeing, even parts of personal lives, deciding what is the appropriate or inappropriate way for people to express their love for one another ... [is] fundamentally wrong.\u201dDespite his criticism of Russia, Snowden said he still felt free to express himself online. \u201cI do. And I think it\u2019s primarily in the context of the fact that most activities happen online. I mean, when people ask me where I live, the most honest answer is on the internet.\u201dBut he described the ever more restrictive use of intelligence monitoring by richer nations as useless and said the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris in January proved that surveillance does not necessarily keep citizens safe.He said: \u201cThey say: \u2018Well, these things are necessary to keep us safe\u2019. In the Charlie Hebdo attacks, for example, the intelligence services say: \u2018Oh yes, we knew who these people were\u2019. But it didn\u2019t stop the attack.\u201dSnowden, who left Hawaii in May 2013 for Hong Kong, where he leaked the trove of classified documents before leaving for Russia, said his life is now normal but he misses the US. He said: \u201cI mean, I would prefer to live in my own country. But exile is exile.\u201d", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "Norway", "NSA", "The NSA files"], "title": "Snowden criticises Russia for approach to internet and homosexuality"},{"date": "2015-08-25T10:26:18Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian authorities briefly banned the entire Wikipedia site over a page relating to drug use which the site had refused to edit or delete.The ban was quickly lifted on Tuesday, before it had even gone into effect for most Russian internet users but not before the news had created a wave of panic in the country\u2019s online community. There is increasing concern in Russia about a crackdown on internet freedom.A court in a small town in southern Russia ordered that a Wikipedia page about charas, an Indian form of hashish, be banned as it contained harmful information. Because Wikipedia uses secure https protocol, some internet providers would have to ban the entire website. Late on Monday night, some Moscow internet users found Russian-language Wikipedia banned entirely, while for others it was still working, with a message from the website explaining how to circumvent a ban if it did come into place.In a statement on Tuesday, online watchdog Roskomnadzor said the decision to rescind the banning order came because the forbidden information about charas had been redacted. Wikipedia editors said the page remained the same.\u201cThis is an important case because it\u2019s part of the general offensive against https. Roskomnadzor and the FSB [security services] don\u2019t know what to do with it,\u201d said Andrei Soldatov, a journalist and author of Red Web, a book about the Russian internet. Soldatov said SORM, the system Russia uses for internet surveillance, does not work with the more secure https protocol, also used by sites such as Facebook and Gmail.On 1 September, a rule comes into effect which requires internet servers like Facebook and Twitter to store the data of all Russian users onshore. While Roskomnadzor has said it will not check compliance of major sites such as Facebook until next year, it is part of a drive to put pressure on the companies to keep servers in Russia, where data would be accessible by Russian authorities.Soldatov speculated that the move against Wikipedia could be part of a test of another strategy: by threatening the site with bans over single pages, the site could be forced off https to ensure that the whole site is not affected when only one page is banned. Soldatov said: \u201cThere are two options for https: the first is to have access to the data before encryption, which explains the demand to store servers in Russia. The second is to try to force services to give up on https, which is what is happening with Wikipedia.\u201dRussian authorities have become increasingly suspicious of the subversive powers of the internet in the three years since Vladimir Putin returned to the Kremlin for a third term as president in 2012. Protests in the run-up to his inauguration were largely organised on social media, and within a few months of his return to office he had signed a bill providing a list of banned sites.Earlier this year, Russia, China and a number of central Asian dictatorships submitted a proposal to the UN, clearly aimed at the US, calling for countries not to use the internet \u201cto interfere in the internal affairs of other states or with the aim of undermining their political, economic and social stability\u201d.", "tags": ["Russia", "Wikipedia", "Censorship", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "World news"], "title": "Russia briefly bans Wikipedia over page relating to drug use"},{"date": "2015-08-18T09:53:15Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The 2014 breakout hit Pride will finally be released in Russia, despite the country\u2019s stringent anti-gay laws. Related: Miners and LGBT activists who inspired hit film Pride reunite A distributor called Arthouse, known for releasing independent and foreign films, has taken on the British comedy, directed by Matthew Warchus, which premiered at last year\u2019s Cannes film festival.In Russia, laws against homosexuality have increased in recent years, leading to the outlawing, in 2013, of \u201cpropaganda\u201d that promotes \u201cnon-traditional sexual relations\u201d. Any film that features same-sex content must be given an 18+ certificate.Arthouse showcased the film\u2019s artwork on Twitter:\u0411\u0440\u0438\u0442\u0430\u043d\u0441\u043a\u0430\u044f \u043a\u043e\u043c\u0435\u0434\u0438\u044f \u00ab\u0413\u043e\u0440\u0434\u043e\u0441\u0442\u044c\u00bb \u043e \u0441\u043e\u0432\u043c\u0435\u0441\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0439 \u0431\u043e\u0440\u044c\u0431\u0435 \u041b\u0413\u0411\u0422 \u0438 \u0448\u0430\u0445\u0442\u0435\u0440\u043e\u0432 \u0432 \u043a\u0438\u043d\u043e \u0441 \u0441\u0435\u0433\u043e\u0434\u043d\u044f\u0448\u043d\u0435\u0433\u043e \u0434\u043d\u044f! https://t.co/kRqWfdCMJb pic.twitter.com/SZ4nBcQjFVThe company was founded in March by Sam Klebanov, following the financial collapse of his previous company, Cinema Without Frontiers, which distributed Blue Is the Warmest Colour. Pride tells the story of an alliance between an LGBT support group and coalminers during the strike of 1984. It was a critical and commercial hit and picked up a Golden Globe nomination for best picture \u2013 musical or comedy. The narrative is bookended by scenes set at London\u2019s annual Pride parade. In Russia, Moscow Pride was banned for 100 years by the city courts in 2012.LGBT rights continue to be an issue in Russia, with the most recent attempt to curb homosexuality related to a proposed ban on same-sex emojis.", "tags": ["Pride", "Film", "Culture", "Russia", "LGBT rights", "Golden Globes 2015"], "title": "Pride to receive release in Russia despite anti-gay laws"},{"date": "2015-08-03T06:00:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "World powers are reporting surges in airspace violations and instances where aircraft are scrambled to intercept foreign jets, amid a sharp rise in geopolitical tensions in Europe and Asia.Nato member aircraft were forced to conduct more than 500 scrambles over Europe in 2014 \u2013 a fourfold increase on the previous year. Nearly 85% of these were to intercept Russian aircraft. This year, there have already been more than 300 scrambles, according to data provided by Nato to the Guardian. These are some of the highest numbers since the end of the cold war.Russia alleges that Nato sorties near its borders doubled last year. Nato called the claim \u201cdeliberately vague\u201d. Related: Nato\u2019s war games reduce global tensions, not escalate them | Letters Elsewhere, Japan has been scrambling aircraft in record numbers because of Chinese activity. Airspace violations by Turkish aircraft over Greek waters increased three and a half times last year compared with the previous two years.Although nearly all of these interventions are described by those close to operations as \u201calmost routine\u201d, several incidents reveal there is a risk of escalation because of the sheer volume of incidents. Despite the increase in interceptions, Nato will be halving the number of aircraft used in its Baltic air-policing mission later this year.A scramble doesn\u2019t imply a breach of sovereign airspace or military aviation rules. In fact, in most cases, there is no breach. Last year, there were 10 incursions by Russian aircraft into airspace belonging to Nato members. Eight of these were over islands belonging to Estonia (six over remote Vaindloo alone). The others were into Norwegian and Polish airspace in March and April respectively, and both lasted seconds.There have been no incursions recorded by Nato\u2019s 28 members in 2015. A Russian aircraft did, though, briefly enter airspace belonging to Finland, which is not a Nato member, on 26 June. While Swedish armed forces have counted nine incursions into Sweden\u2019s sovereign airspace so far this year. The country\u2019s airspace was breached 12 times last year. Nearly all these incursions into Swedish airspace, however, were not by Russian aircraft.A Nato official explained to the Guardian that it was difficult to understand what motivated Russia and to know for certain if these events were provocations or could be explained by other factors such as weather.What is clear is there has been an increase in Russian activity. In comparison with current levels of activity, there were, for example, only seven Russian incursions into Estonian airspace between 2006 and 2013.Russian activity has included several more provocative \u2013 albeit isolated \u2013 incidents. These have included aircraft flying several times over military ships and bombers taking unconventional paths in proximity to US, Portuguese and British airspace.But, according to Russia, this is all driven by an increase in the activities of \u201cNato countries and their partners\u201d encroaching on its airspace.A Russian government official told the Guardian that Russian air force flights, consisting mostly of training sorties in international airspace, needed to be seen within the context of \u201ca drastic increase in the activity of foreign reconnaissance and combat planes near Russian borders\u201d.According to data collected by Russian authorities, and shared with the Guardian, Nato carried out more than 3,000 tactical aviation sorties near Russian borders in 2014, more than double the previous year. Nato patrols over Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia increased 3.5 times.However, according to Lieutenant-Colonel Jay Janzen, chief of media operations at Nato\u2019s Supreme HQ Allied Powers Europe, Russia is regularly using disinformation and propaganda to confuse the public regarding current events.\u201cScrambles are launched in response to Russian activity. The sole aim is to preserve the integrity of Nato European airspace and to safeguard Nato nations from air attacks.\u201dHe acknowledged that Nato had increased the numbers of surveillance flights in recent months, but insisted they remained \u201chundreds of kilometres from Russia\u2019s borders\u201d.Despite the increased interactions with Russian aircrafts, Nato will be scaling back the number of the Baltic patrolling mission\u2019s aircraft to about eight this autumn, from 16. Before events in Ukraine, the patrolling mission consisted of four aircraft. Janzen said the reduction was appropriate to the scale of the task.There are mitigating factors at play in the surge in airspace incursions. National aviation boundaries are tight in eastern Europe, and the Ukraine conflict has heightened political sensitivities, with some capitals occasionally keen to exaggerate the risk.The single biggest reason for the huge number of scrambles is the fact that Russian aircraft often do not abide by international conventions, western officials say.Russian military aircraft often keep their transponders switched off and, as a result, don\u2019t \u201csquawk\u201d, leaving air traffic controllers in the dark. They also do not share their flight plans.In an analysis by the European Leadership Network (ELN) of 66 incidents, one of the three \u201chigh-risk\u201d incidents recorded between March 2014 and March 2015 involved a near-collision between a Scandinavian Airlines 737 with 132 passengers taking off from Copenhagen and a Russian reconnaissance aircraft. This was due to the latter not broadcasting its position.The Russian government said: \u201cRussian pilots are training under strict orders to follow the requirements of international and national laws and rules. The flights take place over uninhabited areas, mostly open seas, without violating the state borders. Russian aircraft are constantly shadowed by Nato fighters. Russia respects all international and national restrictions imposed on such activities, and will do so in the future.\u201dRussia doesn\u2019t only dice with European airspace. Last year, Japan initiated 943 scrambles \u2013 one incident short of the highest figure on record (in 1984). Pracically all involved Russian (473) and Chinese (464) warplanes.In 2000, Japan was involved in only 155 interceptions. Most of the increased activity has coincided with a significant rise in China\u2019s military spending (from less than 50bn yuan in 1990 to 850bn yuan last year), increased capabilities, and in more recent years, intensified presence and activity on land, in waters and in the airspace near Japan on the back of an ongoing dispute over uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.Of the 173 interceptions in the first three months of 2015, 57 were of Russian aircrafts compared to 114 incidents involving Chinese aircrafts.One characteristic of China\u2019s behaviour, according to several western aviation experts, is that its aircrafts are more \u201caggressive\u201d than Russia\u2019s.Half a world away from the East China Sea, another disputed area has seen an increase in airspace violations.In 2014, Greece\u2019s military authorities recorded 2,244 violations of Greek airspace by Turkish aircraft, three and a half times more incursions than in 2013. This year, 1,204 violations have already been tracked by the Hellenic national defence general staff.The vast majority of interceptions have taken place over a strip of the Aegean sea, an area disputed since the 1970s. Greece and Turkey contest the extent of Greek airspace around the islands, Athens claiming 10 miles while Ankara only recognises six.A spike in tensions between Greece and Turkey over the Aegean dispute is not unprecedented. In 2006, a mid-air collision between Greek and Turkish fighter planes risked a crisis. A Greek pilot died in the accident. While in 1987 and in 1996, the two countries almost went to war.A Nato official told the Guardian that the Aegean dispute was a matter for Greece and Turkey.There has also been an increase in the number of interceptions in North America. North American Aerospace Defense Command (Norad) has intercepted and visually identified Russian long-range aviation about 25 times over the past five years, or on average about five times per year. That number doubled to about 10 in 2014, with particular spikes in July and early August, which Norad believes is related to training.A Norad official said it was important to note that, in all these instances, Russian aircraft remained in international airspace at all times.In the two separate incidents recorded in July this year \u2013 around the south coast of Alaska, near the Aleutian islands, and off the central California coast \u2013 at no time did the Russian bombers involved enter North American sovereign airspace. *All figures for aircraft interceptions in this piece are approximations because of security reasons\u2022 This article was amended on 2 September 2015 to clarify that most of the incursions into Swedish airspace in 2014-15 were not by Russian aircraft.", "tags": ["Nato", "Defence policy", "Royal Air Force", "Russia", "Ukraine", "Japan", "China", "Turkey", "Greece", "Finland", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Nato reports surge in jet interceptions as Russia tensions increase"},{"date": "2015-08-06T17:18:24Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russian investigators have questioned the 82-year-old father of Mikhail Khodorkovsky over the murder of a Siberian mayor in the 1990s, in a move apparently designed to put pressure on Russia\u2019s former richest man, who spent a decade in jail.Boris Khodorkovsky was questioned in Moscow on Thursday over the 1998 killing of the mayor of Nefteyugansk, a Siberian town where Mikhail Khodorkovsky\u2019s Yukos oil giant had major operations. Investigators say the younger Khodorkovsky, who now lives in Switzerland, is a key suspect in the murder.He has always denied involvement in the murder, and his supporters have suggested the timing of the case is meant to put pressure on him. The former Yukos chief continues to oppose President Vladimir Putin from his Zurich exile. Alexei Pichugin, formerly the head of security at Yukos, was sentenced to 20 years in jail for organising the murder in 2005, though he maintains his innocence. Related: Mikhail Khodorkovsky breaks political silence, saying he would lead Russia Vladimir Markin, of Russia\u2019s investigative committee, said in June that officials had new evidence suggesting Mikhail Khodorkovsky \u201cpersonally ordered\u201d the murder. However, a statement from Khodorkovsky\u2019s press service this week said there were no signs any serious investigation into the murder was going on, and \u201cthe only goal is to apply pressure\u201d to him and his family.\u201cAs far as we know, his father is the only witness to have been called so far,\u201d said Maria Baronova of Khodorkovsky\u2019s Open Russia foundation. She said she believed one of the goals of the investigation was to pressure Boris Khodorkovsky into leaving Russia. Related: Russia's opposition: who is left to take on Vladimir Putin? Mikhail Khodorkovsky spent a decade in jail on charges of tax evasion and embezzlement, which were widely seen as a warning to Russia\u2019s other oligarchs to stay out of politics. Putin agreed to release the former tycoon after he wrote to the president asking to be allowed out to see his dying mother. He was flown straight to Germany and has not returned to Russia since.Khodorkovsky remained silent until his mother died last summer, but shortly afterwards began making political statements, and set up the Open Russia foundation to work inside Russia, although he himself has remained in Zurich. He believes he will be arrested immediately if he returns to Russia.Late last year, Khodorkovsky told the Guardian in an interview in Zurich that he is \u201cprepared to go all the way\u201d to ensure that the regime in Russia changes. He claimed he does not have a burning desire to replace Putin, but allowed for the possibility that he might launch a presidential campaign one day. \u201cI can\u2019t really say that I am really interested in doing that, but if people ask me, then yeah, OK, I\u2019m ready,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "Vladimir Putin", "Switzerland", "World news"], "title": "Mikhail Khodorkovsky's father questioned in Russia over 1998 murder"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-02T21:51:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Although Turkey may have replaced the US as Russia\u2019s rhetorical enemy No 1, the animations playing on the giant screens in Moscow\u2019s new \u201cwar room\u201d complex hadn\u2019t yet been updated: they still featured the glowing red outline of North America under laser-like lines that seemed to suggest crosshairs.But an unexpected defence ministry briefing on Wednesday \u2013 the first such event for foreign media in recent memory \u2013 left no doubt who was in Russia\u2019s sights. Sitting beneath the main screen, which now showed satellite images of the Turkish-Syrian border, the deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, accused Turkey of buying oil from Islamic State (Isis), and claimed the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, was personally involved in this \u201ccriminal business\u201d.\u201cA unified team of bandits and Turkish elites operates in the region to steal oil from their neighbours [Iraq and Syria],\u201d Antonov said. \u201cThis oil reaches Turkish territory in huge, industrial amounts through living oil pipelines of thousands of tanker trucks.\u201d The trade provided terrorists with $2bn (\u00a31.3bn) in revenues each year.Later, Erdo\u011fan responded by saying: \u201cNobody has the right to slander Turkey by saying Turkey is buying Daesh [Isis] oil.\u201d Related: Turks in Russia hit by Putin's 'serious consequences' after downing of warplane Besides the oil-buying accusations, Wednesday\u2019s briefing also showcased the national defence control centre, a new facility in the defence ministry compound across the Moskva river from Gorky Park that has been compared to a villain\u2019s lair from a spy thriller. Although it officially opened in December 2014 as part of a multibillion-rouble revamp of the military, the control centre made its major debut last month, when state television showed the president, Vladimir Putin, being informed about the progress of the Russian-Syrian military campaign against \u201cterrorists\u201d in Syria. The briefing room used was clearly meant to impress with three tiers of seating, at least 100 uniformed men seated behind computers and huge screens of maps and graphics.A main command hub during wartime, the control centre also includes a room with concentric circles of chairs for more intimate \u2013 but still grandiose \u2013 meetings, as well as command stations and an auditorium for press conferences. Access is via a guarded gate where men in body armour check each vehicle, or a helicopter pad on the riverfront.Turkey has been receiving negative coverage on state television since it shot down a Russian military jet that Ankara said had violated its airspace, a charge Russia has denied. Dozens of foreign military attaches also attended what some said was the first such briefing in months, although those of the US and Britain were not noticeable.Asked whether the briefing was connected to the recent tensions with Turkey, a defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, would only say it had been called because there was interest in the topic and had been planned several days in advance. But much of the satellite imagery dated from as far back as August, even though it had not previously been presented.Antonov and other officials said at least 8,500 tankers transport up to 200,000 tonnes of oil a day from Isis-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq to Turkey, where it is sold for local use or transported on.But the only indication of Erdo\u011fan\u2019s participation in the trade was Antonov\u2019s claim that the Turkish president\u2019s son was the head of a large energy company. He appeared to be referring to the president\u2019s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak, who previously ran the energy firm \u00c7al\u0131k Holding and was appointed energy minister in November.Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of staff, said Russian airstrikes had reduced Isis\u2019s oil income from $3m to $1.5m a day, complaining that Moscow had not \u201cobserved strikes on columns of tanker trucks from the coalition\u201d led by the US.A German military attache who declined to provide his name said the findings of Isis oil flowing to Turkey were \u201cnot really new\u201d but admitted he had not seen such evidence \u201cin this form\u201d.\u201cWe have no chance to check it at this time, but we will check,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia steps up hostility against Turkey with war room briefing"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-02T21:51:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Although Turkey may have replaced the US as Russia\u2019s rhetorical enemy No 1, the animations playing on the giant screens in Moscow\u2019s new \u201cwar room\u201d complex hadn\u2019t yet been updated: they still featured the glowing red outline of North America under laser-like lines that seemed to suggest crosshairs.But an unexpected defence ministry briefing on Wednesday \u2013 the first such event for foreign media in recent memory \u2013 left no doubt who was in Russia\u2019s sights. Sitting beneath the main screen, which now showed satellite images of the Turkish-Syrian border, the deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, accused Turkey of buying oil from Islamic State (Isis), and claimed the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, was personally involved in this \u201ccriminal business\u201d.\u201cA unified team of bandits and Turkish elites operates in the region to steal oil from their neighbours [Iraq and Syria],\u201d Antonov said. \u201cThis oil reaches Turkish territory in huge, industrial amounts through living oil pipelines of thousands of tanker trucks.\u201d The trade provided terrorists with $2bn (\u00a31.3bn) in revenues each year.Later, Erdo\u011fan responded by saying: \u201cNobody has the right to slander Turkey by saying Turkey is buying Daesh [Isis] oil.\u201d Related: Turks in Russia hit by Putin's 'serious consequences' after downing of warplane Besides the oil-buying accusations, Wednesday\u2019s briefing also showcased the national defence control centre, a new facility in the defence ministry compound across the Moskva river from Gorky Park that has been compared to a villain\u2019s lair from a spy thriller. Although it officially opened in December 2014 as part of a multibillion-rouble revamp of the military, the control centre made its major debut last month, when state television showed the president, Vladimir Putin, being informed about the progress of the Russian-Syrian military campaign against \u201cterrorists\u201d in Syria. The briefing room used was clearly meant to impress with three tiers of seating, at least 100 uniformed men seated behind computers and huge screens of maps and graphics.A main command hub during wartime, the control centre also includes a room with concentric circles of chairs for more intimate \u2013 but still grandiose \u2013 meetings, as well as command stations and an auditorium for press conferences. Access is via a guarded gate where men in body armour check each vehicle, or a helicopter pad on the riverfront.Turkey has been receiving negative coverage on state television since it shot down a Russian military jet that Ankara said had violated its airspace, a charge Russia has denied. Dozens of foreign military attaches also attended what some said was the first such briefing in months, although those of the US and Britain were not noticeable.Asked whether the briefing was connected to the recent tensions with Turkey, a defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, would only say it had been called because there was interest in the topic and had been planned several days in advance. But much of the satellite imagery dated from as far back as August, even though it had not previously been presented.Antonov and other officials said at least 8,500 tankers transport up to 200,000 tonnes of oil a day from Isis-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq to Turkey, where it is sold for local use or transported on.But the only indication of Erdo\u011fan\u2019s participation in the trade was Antonov\u2019s claim that the Turkish president\u2019s son was the head of a large energy company. He appeared to be referring to the president\u2019s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak, who previously ran the energy firm \u00c7al\u0131k Holding and was appointed energy minister in November.Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of staff, said Russian airstrikes had reduced Isis\u2019s oil income from $3m to $1.5m a day, complaining that Moscow had not \u201cobserved strikes on columns of tanker trucks from the coalition\u201d led by the US.A German military attache who declined to provide his name said the findings of Isis oil flowing to Turkey were \u201cnot really new\u201d but admitted he had not seen such evidence \u201cin this form\u201d.\u201cWe have no chance to check it at this time, but we will check,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia steps up hostility against Turkey with war room briefing"},{"date": "2015-11-26T18:08:49Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has announced that it will impose import sanctions on Turkey and cancel major investment projects as the spat between the two countries over the downed Su-24 fighter jet continues.The Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, said broad punitive steps could include halting joint economic projects, restricting financial and trade transactions and changing customs duties. There were calls to ban imports of all Turkish produce, while in the city of Krasnodar, dozens of Turkish workers were rounded up and arrested for visa violations.Already, the country\u2019s tourist board has suspended all tours to Turkey, a move that it estimated would cost the Turkish economy $10bn (\u00a36.6bn). Russia also said it was suspending all military cooperation with Turkey, including closing down an emergency hotline to share information on Russian airstrikes in Syria. Related: Why did it take Turkey just 17 seconds to shoot down Russian jet? Putin accused Turkey of deliberately trying to bring relations between Moscow and Ankara to a standstill, adding that Moscow was still awaiting an apology or an offer of reimbursement for damages. He earlier called the act a \u201cstab in the back by the accomplices of terrorists\u201d and promised \u201cserious consequences\u201d.World leaders have urged both sides to avoid escalation. In an apparent attempt to cool the dispute \u2013 and appeal to western countries \u2013 Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said in a letter to Britain\u2019s Times newspaper that Ankara would work with its allies and Russia to \u201ccalm tensions\u201d. For two days, Russian officials have fumed over the incident and demanded an apology, while the Russian ambassador in Ankara was summoned in response to the Turkish embassy in Moscow being pelted with eggs and stones. If Moscow expected to hear grovelling from Ankara, an apology was not forthcoming. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, told CNN that Russia, not Turkey, should be apologising, and in a speech to local officials in Ankara dismissed as \u201cemotional\u201d and \u201cunfitting\u201d Russian suggestions that joint projects could be cancelled.In response to Russian accusations that Turkey has been buying oil and gas from Islamic State in Syria, Erdo\u011fan said: \u201cShame on you. It\u2019s clear where Turkey buys its oil and gas ... Those who claim we are buying oil from Daesh [an Arabic acronym for Isis] like this must prove their claims. Nobody can slander this country.\u201dRussia has insisted that its plane never strayed from Syrian airspace, while Turkey says it crossed into its airspace for 17 seconds. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that even if this was the case, shooting the plane down was an extreme over-reaction and looked like a pre-planned provocation.The plane\u2019s pilot and a marine sent on a rescue mission died. The surviving navigator claimed in an interview with Russian television that he received no audio or visual warning before the plane was shot down. The Turks have released audio recordings of what they say are radio warnings issued to the plane.The Russia-Turkey spat makes work harder for Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who held talks with Putin as part of a diplomatic marathon aimed at building a wide-ranging coalition to launch airstrikes against Isis. \u201cI\u2019m in Moscow with you to figure out how we can act together in order to coordinate our actions in order to hit this terrorist group and look for political solutions for Syria,\u201d said Hollande in televised comments before the two presidents retired for talks.Putin expressed his condolences over the Paris attacks earlier this month: \u201cOur positions are the same. Russia has been the target of terrorist attacks for a long time. So we empathise with you, we know how you feel, how the people of France feel.\u201dHollande and Putin met in the Kremlin late on Thursday. The meeting was more cordial than recent surly encounters over Ukraine, with Hollande referring to his counterpart as \u201cmon cher Vladimir\u201d, but appeared to yield little in the way of real progress.As it has done for years, the issue of Bashar al-Assad\u2019s fate still divides Moscow and most western capitals. Hollande said Assad \u201chas no place\u201d in a future Syria while Putin said the Syrian president had to be considered an ally.\u201cTo successfully fight terrorism in Syria is impossible without ground operations, and there is no force in Syria which could take part in ground operations except Assad\u2019s army. So I think Assad himself and his army is a necessary ally in the fight against terror,\u201d he said.Putin said he would prefer a broad coalition to fight Isis under a UN mandate, presumably with Assad\u2019s backing, but conceded \u201cour partners are not ready for this\u201d. He said Russia would work with the US-led coalition where possible, but added that any further incidents such as the Turkish shoot-down of a Russian fighter jet on Tuesday were \u201cabsolutely unacceptable\u201d. Hollande said that the two leaders had agreed on better intelligence coordination and exchange. Related: France's anti-Isis coalition: where the key countries stand Moscow has been carrying out airstrikes in Syria for nearly two months, which western capitals say are aimed less at fighting Isis and more at propping up the Assad regime. Putin has said the best way to defeat Isis is to support the \u201clegitimate government\u201d of Assad and not to allow the institutions of state to crumble, as in Iraq and Libya..Hollande met Barack Obama in Washington on Tuesday and Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, in Paris earlier on Thursday. He met David Cameron on Monday and Angela Merkel on Wednesday.In Britain, a vote of MPs is due next week on the extension of airstrikes from Iraq to Syria. On Monday Cameron told Hollande that France could use a British airbase in Cyprus to fly missions against Isis.Germany\u2019s defence spokesman said Tornado reconnaissance jets would be sent to support the fight against Isis in Syria. Henning Otte said Germany would play a more active role, a day after Merkel told Hollande she would act swiftly to work out how her country could offer more support. ", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "France", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia imposes sanctions on Turkey over downed plane"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-02T21:51:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Although Turkey may have replaced the US as Russia\u2019s rhetorical enemy No 1, the animations playing on the giant screens in Moscow\u2019s new \u201cwar room\u201d complex hadn\u2019t yet been updated: they still featured the glowing red outline of North America under laser-like lines that seemed to suggest crosshairs.But an unexpected defence ministry briefing on Wednesday \u2013 the first such event for foreign media in recent memory \u2013 left no doubt who was in Russia\u2019s sights. Sitting beneath the main screen, which now showed satellite images of the Turkish-Syrian border, the deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, accused Turkey of buying oil from Islamic State (Isis), and claimed the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, was personally involved in this \u201ccriminal business\u201d.\u201cA unified team of bandits and Turkish elites operates in the region to steal oil from their neighbours [Iraq and Syria],\u201d Antonov said. \u201cThis oil reaches Turkish territory in huge, industrial amounts through living oil pipelines of thousands of tanker trucks.\u201d The trade provided terrorists with $2bn (\u00a31.3bn) in revenues each year.Later, Erdo\u011fan responded by saying: \u201cNobody has the right to slander Turkey by saying Turkey is buying Daesh [Isis] oil.\u201d Related: Turks in Russia hit by Putin's 'serious consequences' after downing of warplane Besides the oil-buying accusations, Wednesday\u2019s briefing also showcased the national defence control centre, a new facility in the defence ministry compound across the Moskva river from Gorky Park that has been compared to a villain\u2019s lair from a spy thriller. Although it officially opened in December 2014 as part of a multibillion-rouble revamp of the military, the control centre made its major debut last month, when state television showed the president, Vladimir Putin, being informed about the progress of the Russian-Syrian military campaign against \u201cterrorists\u201d in Syria. The briefing room used was clearly meant to impress with three tiers of seating, at least 100 uniformed men seated behind computers and huge screens of maps and graphics.A main command hub during wartime, the control centre also includes a room with concentric circles of chairs for more intimate \u2013 but still grandiose \u2013 meetings, as well as command stations and an auditorium for press conferences. Access is via a guarded gate where men in body armour check each vehicle, or a helicopter pad on the riverfront.Turkey has been receiving negative coverage on state television since it shot down a Russian military jet that Ankara said had violated its airspace, a charge Russia has denied. Dozens of foreign military attaches also attended what some said was the first such briefing in months, although those of the US and Britain were not noticeable.Asked whether the briefing was connected to the recent tensions with Turkey, a defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, would only say it had been called because there was interest in the topic and had been planned several days in advance. But much of the satellite imagery dated from as far back as August, even though it had not previously been presented.Antonov and other officials said at least 8,500 tankers transport up to 200,000 tonnes of oil a day from Isis-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq to Turkey, where it is sold for local use or transported on.But the only indication of Erdo\u011fan\u2019s participation in the trade was Antonov\u2019s claim that the Turkish president\u2019s son was the head of a large energy company. He appeared to be referring to the president\u2019s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak, who previously ran the energy firm \u00c7al\u0131k Holding and was appointed energy minister in November.Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of staff, said Russian airstrikes had reduced Isis\u2019s oil income from $3m to $1.5m a day, complaining that Moscow had not \u201cobserved strikes on columns of tanker trucks from the coalition\u201d led by the US.A German military attache who declined to provide his name said the findings of Isis oil flowing to Turkey were \u201cnot really new\u201d but admitted he had not seen such evidence \u201cin this form\u201d.\u201cWe have no chance to check it at this time, but we will check,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia steps up hostility against Turkey with war room briefing"},{"date": "2015-11-26T18:08:49Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has announced that it will impose import sanctions on Turkey and cancel major investment projects as the spat between the two countries over the downed Su-24 fighter jet continues.The Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, said broad punitive steps could include halting joint economic projects, restricting financial and trade transactions and changing customs duties. There were calls to ban imports of all Turkish produce, while in the city of Krasnodar, dozens of Turkish workers were rounded up and arrested for visa violations.Already, the country\u2019s tourist board has suspended all tours to Turkey, a move that it estimated would cost the Turkish economy $10bn (\u00a36.6bn). Russia also said it was suspending all military cooperation with Turkey, including closing down an emergency hotline to share information on Russian airstrikes in Syria. Related: Why did it take Turkey just 17 seconds to shoot down Russian jet? Putin accused Turkey of deliberately trying to bring relations between Moscow and Ankara to a standstill, adding that Moscow was still awaiting an apology or an offer of reimbursement for damages. He earlier called the act a \u201cstab in the back by the accomplices of terrorists\u201d and promised \u201cserious consequences\u201d.World leaders have urged both sides to avoid escalation. In an apparent attempt to cool the dispute \u2013 and appeal to western countries \u2013 Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said in a letter to Britain\u2019s Times newspaper that Ankara would work with its allies and Russia to \u201ccalm tensions\u201d. For two days, Russian officials have fumed over the incident and demanded an apology, while the Russian ambassador in Ankara was summoned in response to the Turkish embassy in Moscow being pelted with eggs and stones. If Moscow expected to hear grovelling from Ankara, an apology was not forthcoming. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, told CNN that Russia, not Turkey, should be apologising, and in a speech to local officials in Ankara dismissed as \u201cemotional\u201d and \u201cunfitting\u201d Russian suggestions that joint projects could be cancelled.In response to Russian accusations that Turkey has been buying oil and gas from Islamic State in Syria, Erdo\u011fan said: \u201cShame on you. It\u2019s clear where Turkey buys its oil and gas ... Those who claim we are buying oil from Daesh [an Arabic acronym for Isis] like this must prove their claims. Nobody can slander this country.\u201dRussia has insisted that its plane never strayed from Syrian airspace, while Turkey says it crossed into its airspace for 17 seconds. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that even if this was the case, shooting the plane down was an extreme over-reaction and looked like a pre-planned provocation.The plane\u2019s pilot and a marine sent on a rescue mission died. The surviving navigator claimed in an interview with Russian television that he received no audio or visual warning before the plane was shot down. The Turks have released audio recordings of what they say are radio warnings issued to the plane.The Russia-Turkey spat makes work harder for Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who held talks with Putin as part of a diplomatic marathon aimed at building a wide-ranging coalition to launch airstrikes against Isis. \u201cI\u2019m in Moscow with you to figure out how we can act together in order to coordinate our actions in order to hit this terrorist group and look for political solutions for Syria,\u201d said Hollande in televised comments before the two presidents retired for talks.Putin expressed his condolences over the Paris attacks earlier this month: \u201cOur positions are the same. Russia has been the target of terrorist attacks for a long time. So we empathise with you, we know how you feel, how the people of France feel.\u201dHollande and Putin met in the Kremlin late on Thursday. The meeting was more cordial than recent surly encounters over Ukraine, with Hollande referring to his counterpart as \u201cmon cher Vladimir\u201d, but appeared to yield little in the way of real progress.As it has done for years, the issue of Bashar al-Assad\u2019s fate still divides Moscow and most western capitals. Hollande said Assad \u201chas no place\u201d in a future Syria while Putin said the Syrian president had to be considered an ally.\u201cTo successfully fight terrorism in Syria is impossible without ground operations, and there is no force in Syria which could take part in ground operations except Assad\u2019s army. So I think Assad himself and his army is a necessary ally in the fight against terror,\u201d he said.Putin said he would prefer a broad coalition to fight Isis under a UN mandate, presumably with Assad\u2019s backing, but conceded \u201cour partners are not ready for this\u201d. He said Russia would work with the US-led coalition where possible, but added that any further incidents such as the Turkish shoot-down of a Russian fighter jet on Tuesday were \u201cabsolutely unacceptable\u201d. Hollande said that the two leaders had agreed on better intelligence coordination and exchange. Related: France's anti-Isis coalition: where the key countries stand Moscow has been carrying out airstrikes in Syria for nearly two months, which western capitals say are aimed less at fighting Isis and more at propping up the Assad regime. Putin has said the best way to defeat Isis is to support the \u201clegitimate government\u201d of Assad and not to allow the institutions of state to crumble, as in Iraq and Libya..Hollande met Barack Obama in Washington on Tuesday and Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, in Paris earlier on Thursday. He met David Cameron on Monday and Angela Merkel on Wednesday.In Britain, a vote of MPs is due next week on the extension of airstrikes from Iraq to Syria. On Monday Cameron told Hollande that France could use a British airbase in Cyprus to fly missions against Isis.Germany\u2019s defence spokesman said Tornado reconnaissance jets would be sent to support the fight against Isis in Syria. Henning Otte said Germany would play a more active role, a day after Merkel told Hollande she would act swiftly to work out how her country could offer more support. ", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "France", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia imposes sanctions on Turkey over downed plane"},{"date": "2015-11-30T15:02:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has branded foundations run by the financier George Soros a threat to the country\u2019s constitutional order, and banned them from disbursing grants to Russian partners.The Open Society Foundation and the Open Society Institute\u2019s Assistance Foundation, both financed by Soros, are the latest additions to a list of \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d, a list the government says is necessary to stop foreign governments from interfering in Russia\u2019s internal affairs. The two are accused of posing a threat to Russia\u2019s constitutional order and national security.Supporters say such organisations provide crucial funding for human rights and civil society organisations that Russian donors would not risk supporting, and blast the laws on which the ban is based as a sign of an increasing government crackdown and paranoia.Russia\u2019s parliament passed the law on \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d in May, and two months later the upper house sent the prosecutor\u2019s office a list of 12 international organisations it wanted to see added to the list, including the two Soros foundations. At the time, parliamentarian Konstantin Kosachev said the organisations on the list \u201ccriticise Russia at any chance and are trying to gain external control over the situation in our country and over our people\u201d.Soros has long been a controversial figure in Russia because of his financing of civil society groups active in protest movements. He is often referred to as a kind of puppet master, directing \u201ccoloured revolutions\u201d in post-Soviet states. However, organisations which had received grants from Soros said this characterisation was inaccurate.\u201cI think this is a deeply unfair decision, although of course it was predictable in the current climate,\u201d said Arseny Roginsky, of Memorial, an organisation working on preserving historical memory, which has received grants from Soros for a number of years. \u201cSoros has done much good for Russia ever since the 1990s, supporting education and science as well as civil society. The organisation should be thanked, not banned. But those are the times we live in.\u201dThe foundations closed their offices in Russia in 2003 but continued to disburse grants to a number of civil society groups.\u201cThe authorities are using the law on \u2018undesirable organisations\u2019 to squeeze the life out of Russian civil society,\u201d said Tanya Lokshina, of Human Rights Watch. \u201cWhile not banning foreign funding as such, they have banned specific major donors, and are pushing other foreign donors to stop their programmes in Russia due to the increasingly hostile political climate.\u201dThe National Endowment for Democracy, largely funded by the US Congress, was the first organisation to be confirmed as \u201cundesirable\u201d in July. At the same time, the MacArthur Foundation pulled out of Russia after being put on the provisional list of 12. It had been active in the country since 1992, disbursing about $172m of grants in areas including education, human rights and nuclear non-proliferation. The Open Society Institute said it would wait for a formal decision before pulling out. Now that has come, it is illegal for Russian organisations to accept its money.Separately, another law requires any Russian organisation that has a foreign source of funding to register as a \u201cforeign agent\u201d, a term reminiscent of Soviet-era propaganda. Memorial\u2019s Moscow office and a number of its regional affiliations have already been declared foreign agents by local courts.", "tags": ["Russia", "George Soros", "Human rights", "World news", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Russia bans two Soros foundations from disbursing grants"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-02T21:51:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Although Turkey may have replaced the US as Russia\u2019s rhetorical enemy No 1, the animations playing on the giant screens in Moscow\u2019s new \u201cwar room\u201d complex hadn\u2019t yet been updated: they still featured the glowing red outline of North America under laser-like lines that seemed to suggest crosshairs.But an unexpected defence ministry briefing on Wednesday \u2013 the first such event for foreign media in recent memory \u2013 left no doubt who was in Russia\u2019s sights. Sitting beneath the main screen, which now showed satellite images of the Turkish-Syrian border, the deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, accused Turkey of buying oil from Islamic State (Isis), and claimed the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, was personally involved in this \u201ccriminal business\u201d.\u201cA unified team of bandits and Turkish elites operates in the region to steal oil from their neighbours [Iraq and Syria],\u201d Antonov said. \u201cThis oil reaches Turkish territory in huge, industrial amounts through living oil pipelines of thousands of tanker trucks.\u201d The trade provided terrorists with $2bn (\u00a31.3bn) in revenues each year.Later, Erdo\u011fan responded by saying: \u201cNobody has the right to slander Turkey by saying Turkey is buying Daesh [Isis] oil.\u201d Related: Turks in Russia hit by Putin's 'serious consequences' after downing of warplane Besides the oil-buying accusations, Wednesday\u2019s briefing also showcased the national defence control centre, a new facility in the defence ministry compound across the Moskva river from Gorky Park that has been compared to a villain\u2019s lair from a spy thriller. Although it officially opened in December 2014 as part of a multibillion-rouble revamp of the military, the control centre made its major debut last month, when state television showed the president, Vladimir Putin, being informed about the progress of the Russian-Syrian military campaign against \u201cterrorists\u201d in Syria. The briefing room used was clearly meant to impress with three tiers of seating, at least 100 uniformed men seated behind computers and huge screens of maps and graphics.A main command hub during wartime, the control centre also includes a room with concentric circles of chairs for more intimate \u2013 but still grandiose \u2013 meetings, as well as command stations and an auditorium for press conferences. Access is via a guarded gate where men in body armour check each vehicle, or a helicopter pad on the riverfront.Turkey has been receiving negative coverage on state television since it shot down a Russian military jet that Ankara said had violated its airspace, a charge Russia has denied. Dozens of foreign military attaches also attended what some said was the first such briefing in months, although those of the US and Britain were not noticeable.Asked whether the briefing was connected to the recent tensions with Turkey, a defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, would only say it had been called because there was interest in the topic and had been planned several days in advance. But much of the satellite imagery dated from as far back as August, even though it had not previously been presented.Antonov and other officials said at least 8,500 tankers transport up to 200,000 tonnes of oil a day from Isis-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq to Turkey, where it is sold for local use or transported on.But the only indication of Erdo\u011fan\u2019s participation in the trade was Antonov\u2019s claim that the Turkish president\u2019s son was the head of a large energy company. He appeared to be referring to the president\u2019s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak, who previously ran the energy firm \u00c7al\u0131k Holding and was appointed energy minister in November.Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of staff, said Russian airstrikes had reduced Isis\u2019s oil income from $3m to $1.5m a day, complaining that Moscow had not \u201cobserved strikes on columns of tanker trucks from the coalition\u201d led by the US.A German military attache who declined to provide his name said the findings of Isis oil flowing to Turkey were \u201cnot really new\u201d but admitted he had not seen such evidence \u201cin this form\u201d.\u201cWe have no chance to check it at this time, but we will check,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia steps up hostility against Turkey with war room briefing"},{"date": "2015-11-26T18:08:49Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has announced that it will impose import sanctions on Turkey and cancel major investment projects as the spat between the two countries over the downed Su-24 fighter jet continues.The Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, said broad punitive steps could include halting joint economic projects, restricting financial and trade transactions and changing customs duties. There were calls to ban imports of all Turkish produce, while in the city of Krasnodar, dozens of Turkish workers were rounded up and arrested for visa violations.Already, the country\u2019s tourist board has suspended all tours to Turkey, a move that it estimated would cost the Turkish economy $10bn (\u00a36.6bn). Russia also said it was suspending all military cooperation with Turkey, including closing down an emergency hotline to share information on Russian airstrikes in Syria. Related: Why did it take Turkey just 17 seconds to shoot down Russian jet? Putin accused Turkey of deliberately trying to bring relations between Moscow and Ankara to a standstill, adding that Moscow was still awaiting an apology or an offer of reimbursement for damages. He earlier called the act a \u201cstab in the back by the accomplices of terrorists\u201d and promised \u201cserious consequences\u201d.World leaders have urged both sides to avoid escalation. In an apparent attempt to cool the dispute \u2013 and appeal to western countries \u2013 Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said in a letter to Britain\u2019s Times newspaper that Ankara would work with its allies and Russia to \u201ccalm tensions\u201d. For two days, Russian officials have fumed over the incident and demanded an apology, while the Russian ambassador in Ankara was summoned in response to the Turkish embassy in Moscow being pelted with eggs and stones. If Moscow expected to hear grovelling from Ankara, an apology was not forthcoming. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, told CNN that Russia, not Turkey, should be apologising, and in a speech to local officials in Ankara dismissed as \u201cemotional\u201d and \u201cunfitting\u201d Russian suggestions that joint projects could be cancelled.In response to Russian accusations that Turkey has been buying oil and gas from Islamic State in Syria, Erdo\u011fan said: \u201cShame on you. It\u2019s clear where Turkey buys its oil and gas ... Those who claim we are buying oil from Daesh [an Arabic acronym for Isis] like this must prove their claims. Nobody can slander this country.\u201dRussia has insisted that its plane never strayed from Syrian airspace, while Turkey says it crossed into its airspace for 17 seconds. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that even if this was the case, shooting the plane down was an extreme over-reaction and looked like a pre-planned provocation.The plane\u2019s pilot and a marine sent on a rescue mission died. The surviving navigator claimed in an interview with Russian television that he received no audio or visual warning before the plane was shot down. The Turks have released audio recordings of what they say are radio warnings issued to the plane.The Russia-Turkey spat makes work harder for Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who held talks with Putin as part of a diplomatic marathon aimed at building a wide-ranging coalition to launch airstrikes against Isis. \u201cI\u2019m in Moscow with you to figure out how we can act together in order to coordinate our actions in order to hit this terrorist group and look for political solutions for Syria,\u201d said Hollande in televised comments before the two presidents retired for talks.Putin expressed his condolences over the Paris attacks earlier this month: \u201cOur positions are the same. Russia has been the target of terrorist attacks for a long time. So we empathise with you, we know how you feel, how the people of France feel.\u201dHollande and Putin met in the Kremlin late on Thursday. The meeting was more cordial than recent surly encounters over Ukraine, with Hollande referring to his counterpart as \u201cmon cher Vladimir\u201d, but appeared to yield little in the way of real progress.As it has done for years, the issue of Bashar al-Assad\u2019s fate still divides Moscow and most western capitals. Hollande said Assad \u201chas no place\u201d in a future Syria while Putin said the Syrian president had to be considered an ally.\u201cTo successfully fight terrorism in Syria is impossible without ground operations, and there is no force in Syria which could take part in ground operations except Assad\u2019s army. So I think Assad himself and his army is a necessary ally in the fight against terror,\u201d he said.Putin said he would prefer a broad coalition to fight Isis under a UN mandate, presumably with Assad\u2019s backing, but conceded \u201cour partners are not ready for this\u201d. He said Russia would work with the US-led coalition where possible, but added that any further incidents such as the Turkish shoot-down of a Russian fighter jet on Tuesday were \u201cabsolutely unacceptable\u201d. Hollande said that the two leaders had agreed on better intelligence coordination and exchange. Related: France's anti-Isis coalition: where the key countries stand Moscow has been carrying out airstrikes in Syria for nearly two months, which western capitals say are aimed less at fighting Isis and more at propping up the Assad regime. Putin has said the best way to defeat Isis is to support the \u201clegitimate government\u201d of Assad and not to allow the institutions of state to crumble, as in Iraq and Libya..Hollande met Barack Obama in Washington on Tuesday and Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, in Paris earlier on Thursday. He met David Cameron on Monday and Angela Merkel on Wednesday.In Britain, a vote of MPs is due next week on the extension of airstrikes from Iraq to Syria. On Monday Cameron told Hollande that France could use a British airbase in Cyprus to fly missions against Isis.Germany\u2019s defence spokesman said Tornado reconnaissance jets would be sent to support the fight against Isis in Syria. Henning Otte said Germany would play a more active role, a day after Merkel told Hollande she would act swiftly to work out how her country could offer more support. ", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "France", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia imposes sanctions on Turkey over downed plane"},{"date": "2015-11-30T15:02:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has branded foundations run by the financier George Soros a threat to the country\u2019s constitutional order, and banned them from disbursing grants to Russian partners.The Open Society Foundation and the Open Society Institute\u2019s Assistance Foundation, both financed by Soros, are the latest additions to a list of \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d, a list the government says is necessary to stop foreign governments from interfering in Russia\u2019s internal affairs. The two are accused of posing a threat to Russia\u2019s constitutional order and national security.Supporters say such organisations provide crucial funding for human rights and civil society organisations that Russian donors would not risk supporting, and blast the laws on which the ban is based as a sign of an increasing government crackdown and paranoia.Russia\u2019s parliament passed the law on \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d in May, and two months later the upper house sent the prosecutor\u2019s office a list of 12 international organisations it wanted to see added to the list, including the two Soros foundations. At the time, parliamentarian Konstantin Kosachev said the organisations on the list \u201ccriticise Russia at any chance and are trying to gain external control over the situation in our country and over our people\u201d.Soros has long been a controversial figure in Russia because of his financing of civil society groups active in protest movements. He is often referred to as a kind of puppet master, directing \u201ccoloured revolutions\u201d in post-Soviet states. However, organisations which had received grants from Soros said this characterisation was inaccurate.\u201cI think this is a deeply unfair decision, although of course it was predictable in the current climate,\u201d said Arseny Roginsky, of Memorial, an organisation working on preserving historical memory, which has received grants from Soros for a number of years. \u201cSoros has done much good for Russia ever since the 1990s, supporting education and science as well as civil society. The organisation should be thanked, not banned. But those are the times we live in.\u201dThe foundations closed their offices in Russia in 2003 but continued to disburse grants to a number of civil society groups.\u201cThe authorities are using the law on \u2018undesirable organisations\u2019 to squeeze the life out of Russian civil society,\u201d said Tanya Lokshina, of Human Rights Watch. \u201cWhile not banning foreign funding as such, they have banned specific major donors, and are pushing other foreign donors to stop their programmes in Russia due to the increasingly hostile political climate.\u201dThe National Endowment for Democracy, largely funded by the US Congress, was the first organisation to be confirmed as \u201cundesirable\u201d in July. At the same time, the MacArthur Foundation pulled out of Russia after being put on the provisional list of 12. It had been active in the country since 1992, disbursing about $172m of grants in areas including education, human rights and nuclear non-proliferation. The Open Society Institute said it would wait for a formal decision before pulling out. Now that has come, it is illegal for Russian organisations to accept its money.Separately, another law requires any Russian organisation that has a foreign source of funding to register as a \u201cforeign agent\u201d, a term reminiscent of Soviet-era propaganda. Memorial\u2019s Moscow office and a number of its regional affiliations have already been declared foreign agents by local courts.", "tags": ["Russia", "George Soros", "Human rights", "World news", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Russia bans two Soros foundations from disbursing grants"},{"date": "2015-11-24T13:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The shooting down by Turkish forces of a Russian Su-24 warplane follows rising tension between the two countries over a continuing Russian bombing campaign against ethnic Turkmen villages in north-western Syria, close to Turkey\u2019s border.It also marks the first direct clash between a Nato member and Russia\u2019s armed forces since Vladimir Putin launched his unilateral military intervention in Syria last month. Nato had already warned Russia over previous border infractions, and the US took \u201cdeconfliction\u201d steps to minimise the risk of accidental conflict.Now the Nato alliance and the US-led coalition in Iraq and Syria find themselves facing exactly the kind of unplanned but inflammatory confrontation with Moscow they had been urgently striving to avoid. Turkey has repeatedly expressed concern over the attacks on the Turkmens, a Sunni Muslim minority who many Turks regard as their kith and kin. Like the Ankara government, the Turkmens oppose the regime of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.Fighting in the Latakia governorate, in western Syria on the border with Turkey, has intensified following last month\u2019s Russian military intervention. Russian warplanes are backing an offensive by Syrian government forces, Lebanese Hezbollah and Iranian Shia Muslim units, Turkmen fighters say.Turkey summoned Russia\u2019s ambassador at the weekend to protest over the \u201cintensive\u201d bombing of the villages. Ahmet Davuto\u011flu, Turkey\u2019s prime minister, said Ankara had demanded an immediate end to Russian military operations along the border. \u201cIt was stressed that the Russian side\u2019s actions were not a fight against terror, but they bombed civilian Turkmen villages and this could lead to serious consequences,\u201d Turkey\u2019s foreign ministry said.The ministry said Turkmen villages had also been subjected to heavy bombardment by Russian planes in the Bay\u0131r-Bucak area of north-west Syria, close to Turkey\u2019s Yaylada\u011f\u0131 border crossing in Hatay province. Like the US and Britain, Turkey says Russian forces have been predominantly targeting a range of anti-Assad rebel groups inside Syria, rather than concentrating their fire on Islamic State forces. Turkey also regards the areas in north-west Syria held by the Bay\u0131r-Bucak Turkmens as an important buffer preventing the territorial expansion of Syria\u2019s Kurdish minority militias, whom it regards as terrorists linked to the Kurdistan Workers\u2019 party (PKK).Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, Turkey\u2019s president, expressed his anger at what Ankara said was a Russian incursion into Turkish airspace in October. Turkish forces recently shot down an unidentified drone along the border. Egged on by Turkey, Nato condemned as unacceptable, the Russian violations of Turkish airspace. Turkish media reports say Turkmens from 50 villages were forced to flee the Gimam area of Latakia governorate last week. There were also reports of Turkmen refugees fleeing from Syria towards Hatay province. \u00d6mer Abdullah, commander of the Turkmen Sultan Abd\u00fclhamit Brigade, called on Ankara to intervene to halt the month-long offensive, the Cihan news agency reported.\u201cWe are trying to survive under unbearable brutality and we need Turkey\u2019s help,\u201d Abdullah said. \u201cEvery day our Turkmen brothers are dying. We expect the government to support us \u2026 Why are we left alone?\u201d Abdullah said his forces were under attack from the Syrian army, Hezbollah and Iranian forces. \u201cI don\u2019t understand why our Muslim brothers remain silent. We need all kinds of support. It\u2019s impossible to survive under such heavy bombardment,\u201d he said.Turkey\u2019s National Intelligence Organisation (MIT) was accused of involvement in clandestine arms shipments to Turkmen forces earlier this year. The Cumhuriyet newspaper published a report on arms smuggling on 29 May that included images of weapons allegedly carried by trucks operated by MIT. Mehmet \u015eand\u0131r, a former Nationalist Movement party MP, told Today\u2019s Zaman newspaper that Turkmens were facing ethnic cleansing in northern Syria. \u201cTurkey has to help the Turkmens. The aid going to the Turkmens is not enough,\u201d he said. Russia\u2019s intervention on behalf of the regime in Damascus angered Erdo\u011fan, who vowed to bring down Assad after Turkish mediation efforts at the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 were rejected by Damascus. Like the US, Turkey fears Russia\u2019s involvement will complicate an already fraught situation, prolong the war, and exacerbate the refugee crisis along Turkey\u2019s border, across which more than 2 million Syrians have fled.Erdo\u011fan was said to be especially annoyed that he was not consulted about Russia\u2019s intentions during his visit to Moscow in September, when he met Putin. Turkey has a long history of tension with Russia over unresolved disputes such as Moscow\u2019s support for Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian-controlled breakaway enclave in Azerbaijan.Ottoman Turkey and tsarist Russia fought a war in 1877-78. And Stalin briefly laid claim to parts of eastern Turkey at the end of the second world war. But ties have improved in recent times, with a series of energy and trade deals. Russia is now Turkey\u2019s second-largest trading partner and 60% of its natural gas comes from Russia.Economic dependence is one powerful reason, among several, why Erdo\u011fan will not want this latest border incident to escalate into a wider confrontation \u2013 although this is something that may not be entirely within his control. \u2022 This article was amended on 26 November 2015. An earlier version referred to Turkmen refugees \u201cfleeing towards Turkey from Syria\u2019s Hatay province\u201d. The writer had intended to say that Turkmen refugees were fleeing from Syria towards Hatay province in Turkey.", "tags": ["Turkey", "Russia", "Nato", "World news", "Europe", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Turkey caught between aiding Turkmen and economic dependence on Russia"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-02T21:51:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Although Turkey may have replaced the US as Russia\u2019s rhetorical enemy No 1, the animations playing on the giant screens in Moscow\u2019s new \u201cwar room\u201d complex hadn\u2019t yet been updated: they still featured the glowing red outline of North America under laser-like lines that seemed to suggest crosshairs.But an unexpected defence ministry briefing on Wednesday \u2013 the first such event for foreign media in recent memory \u2013 left no doubt who was in Russia\u2019s sights. Sitting beneath the main screen, which now showed satellite images of the Turkish-Syrian border, the deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, accused Turkey of buying oil from Islamic State (Isis), and claimed the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, was personally involved in this \u201ccriminal business\u201d.\u201cA unified team of bandits and Turkish elites operates in the region to steal oil from their neighbours [Iraq and Syria],\u201d Antonov said. \u201cThis oil reaches Turkish territory in huge, industrial amounts through living oil pipelines of thousands of tanker trucks.\u201d The trade provided terrorists with $2bn (\u00a31.3bn) in revenues each year.Later, Erdo\u011fan responded by saying: \u201cNobody has the right to slander Turkey by saying Turkey is buying Daesh [Isis] oil.\u201d Related: Turks in Russia hit by Putin's 'serious consequences' after downing of warplane Besides the oil-buying accusations, Wednesday\u2019s briefing also showcased the national defence control centre, a new facility in the defence ministry compound across the Moskva river from Gorky Park that has been compared to a villain\u2019s lair from a spy thriller. Although it officially opened in December 2014 as part of a multibillion-rouble revamp of the military, the control centre made its major debut last month, when state television showed the president, Vladimir Putin, being informed about the progress of the Russian-Syrian military campaign against \u201cterrorists\u201d in Syria. The briefing room used was clearly meant to impress with three tiers of seating, at least 100 uniformed men seated behind computers and huge screens of maps and graphics.A main command hub during wartime, the control centre also includes a room with concentric circles of chairs for more intimate \u2013 but still grandiose \u2013 meetings, as well as command stations and an auditorium for press conferences. Access is via a guarded gate where men in body armour check each vehicle, or a helicopter pad on the riverfront.Turkey has been receiving negative coverage on state television since it shot down a Russian military jet that Ankara said had violated its airspace, a charge Russia has denied. Dozens of foreign military attaches also attended what some said was the first such briefing in months, although those of the US and Britain were not noticeable.Asked whether the briefing was connected to the recent tensions with Turkey, a defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, would only say it had been called because there was interest in the topic and had been planned several days in advance. But much of the satellite imagery dated from as far back as August, even though it had not previously been presented.Antonov and other officials said at least 8,500 tankers transport up to 200,000 tonnes of oil a day from Isis-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq to Turkey, where it is sold for local use or transported on.But the only indication of Erdo\u011fan\u2019s participation in the trade was Antonov\u2019s claim that the Turkish president\u2019s son was the head of a large energy company. He appeared to be referring to the president\u2019s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak, who previously ran the energy firm \u00c7al\u0131k Holding and was appointed energy minister in November.Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of staff, said Russian airstrikes had reduced Isis\u2019s oil income from $3m to $1.5m a day, complaining that Moscow had not \u201cobserved strikes on columns of tanker trucks from the coalition\u201d led by the US.A German military attache who declined to provide his name said the findings of Isis oil flowing to Turkey were \u201cnot really new\u201d but admitted he had not seen such evidence \u201cin this form\u201d.\u201cWe have no chance to check it at this time, but we will check,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia steps up hostility against Turkey with war room briefing"},{"date": "2015-11-26T18:08:49Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has announced that it will impose import sanctions on Turkey and cancel major investment projects as the spat between the two countries over the downed Su-24 fighter jet continues.The Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, said broad punitive steps could include halting joint economic projects, restricting financial and trade transactions and changing customs duties. There were calls to ban imports of all Turkish produce, while in the city of Krasnodar, dozens of Turkish workers were rounded up and arrested for visa violations.Already, the country\u2019s tourist board has suspended all tours to Turkey, a move that it estimated would cost the Turkish economy $10bn (\u00a36.6bn). Russia also said it was suspending all military cooperation with Turkey, including closing down an emergency hotline to share information on Russian airstrikes in Syria. Related: Why did it take Turkey just 17 seconds to shoot down Russian jet? Putin accused Turkey of deliberately trying to bring relations between Moscow and Ankara to a standstill, adding that Moscow was still awaiting an apology or an offer of reimbursement for damages. He earlier called the act a \u201cstab in the back by the accomplices of terrorists\u201d and promised \u201cserious consequences\u201d.World leaders have urged both sides to avoid escalation. In an apparent attempt to cool the dispute \u2013 and appeal to western countries \u2013 Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said in a letter to Britain\u2019s Times newspaper that Ankara would work with its allies and Russia to \u201ccalm tensions\u201d. For two days, Russian officials have fumed over the incident and demanded an apology, while the Russian ambassador in Ankara was summoned in response to the Turkish embassy in Moscow being pelted with eggs and stones. If Moscow expected to hear grovelling from Ankara, an apology was not forthcoming. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, told CNN that Russia, not Turkey, should be apologising, and in a speech to local officials in Ankara dismissed as \u201cemotional\u201d and \u201cunfitting\u201d Russian suggestions that joint projects could be cancelled.In response to Russian accusations that Turkey has been buying oil and gas from Islamic State in Syria, Erdo\u011fan said: \u201cShame on you. It\u2019s clear where Turkey buys its oil and gas ... Those who claim we are buying oil from Daesh [an Arabic acronym for Isis] like this must prove their claims. Nobody can slander this country.\u201dRussia has insisted that its plane never strayed from Syrian airspace, while Turkey says it crossed into its airspace for 17 seconds. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that even if this was the case, shooting the plane down was an extreme over-reaction and looked like a pre-planned provocation.The plane\u2019s pilot and a marine sent on a rescue mission died. The surviving navigator claimed in an interview with Russian television that he received no audio or visual warning before the plane was shot down. The Turks have released audio recordings of what they say are radio warnings issued to the plane.The Russia-Turkey spat makes work harder for Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who held talks with Putin as part of a diplomatic marathon aimed at building a wide-ranging coalition to launch airstrikes against Isis. \u201cI\u2019m in Moscow with you to figure out how we can act together in order to coordinate our actions in order to hit this terrorist group and look for political solutions for Syria,\u201d said Hollande in televised comments before the two presidents retired for talks.Putin expressed his condolences over the Paris attacks earlier this month: \u201cOur positions are the same. Russia has been the target of terrorist attacks for a long time. So we empathise with you, we know how you feel, how the people of France feel.\u201dHollande and Putin met in the Kremlin late on Thursday. The meeting was more cordial than recent surly encounters over Ukraine, with Hollande referring to his counterpart as \u201cmon cher Vladimir\u201d, but appeared to yield little in the way of real progress.As it has done for years, the issue of Bashar al-Assad\u2019s fate still divides Moscow and most western capitals. Hollande said Assad \u201chas no place\u201d in a future Syria while Putin said the Syrian president had to be considered an ally.\u201cTo successfully fight terrorism in Syria is impossible without ground operations, and there is no force in Syria which could take part in ground operations except Assad\u2019s army. So I think Assad himself and his army is a necessary ally in the fight against terror,\u201d he said.Putin said he would prefer a broad coalition to fight Isis under a UN mandate, presumably with Assad\u2019s backing, but conceded \u201cour partners are not ready for this\u201d. He said Russia would work with the US-led coalition where possible, but added that any further incidents such as the Turkish shoot-down of a Russian fighter jet on Tuesday were \u201cabsolutely unacceptable\u201d. Hollande said that the two leaders had agreed on better intelligence coordination and exchange. Related: France's anti-Isis coalition: where the key countries stand Moscow has been carrying out airstrikes in Syria for nearly two months, which western capitals say are aimed less at fighting Isis and more at propping up the Assad regime. Putin has said the best way to defeat Isis is to support the \u201clegitimate government\u201d of Assad and not to allow the institutions of state to crumble, as in Iraq and Libya..Hollande met Barack Obama in Washington on Tuesday and Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, in Paris earlier on Thursday. He met David Cameron on Monday and Angela Merkel on Wednesday.In Britain, a vote of MPs is due next week on the extension of airstrikes from Iraq to Syria. On Monday Cameron told Hollande that France could use a British airbase in Cyprus to fly missions against Isis.Germany\u2019s defence spokesman said Tornado reconnaissance jets would be sent to support the fight against Isis in Syria. Henning Otte said Germany would play a more active role, a day after Merkel told Hollande she would act swiftly to work out how her country could offer more support. ", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "France", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia imposes sanctions on Turkey over downed plane"},{"date": "2015-11-30T15:02:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has branded foundations run by the financier George Soros a threat to the country\u2019s constitutional order, and banned them from disbursing grants to Russian partners.The Open Society Foundation and the Open Society Institute\u2019s Assistance Foundation, both financed by Soros, are the latest additions to a list of \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d, a list the government says is necessary to stop foreign governments from interfering in Russia\u2019s internal affairs. The two are accused of posing a threat to Russia\u2019s constitutional order and national security.Supporters say such organisations provide crucial funding for human rights and civil society organisations that Russian donors would not risk supporting, and blast the laws on which the ban is based as a sign of an increasing government crackdown and paranoia.Russia\u2019s parliament passed the law on \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d in May, and two months later the upper house sent the prosecutor\u2019s office a list of 12 international organisations it wanted to see added to the list, including the two Soros foundations. At the time, parliamentarian Konstantin Kosachev said the organisations on the list \u201ccriticise Russia at any chance and are trying to gain external control over the situation in our country and over our people\u201d.Soros has long been a controversial figure in Russia because of his financing of civil society groups active in protest movements. He is often referred to as a kind of puppet master, directing \u201ccoloured revolutions\u201d in post-Soviet states. However, organisations which had received grants from Soros said this characterisation was inaccurate.\u201cI think this is a deeply unfair decision, although of course it was predictable in the current climate,\u201d said Arseny Roginsky, of Memorial, an organisation working on preserving historical memory, which has received grants from Soros for a number of years. \u201cSoros has done much good for Russia ever since the 1990s, supporting education and science as well as civil society. The organisation should be thanked, not banned. But those are the times we live in.\u201dThe foundations closed their offices in Russia in 2003 but continued to disburse grants to a number of civil society groups.\u201cThe authorities are using the law on \u2018undesirable organisations\u2019 to squeeze the life out of Russian civil society,\u201d said Tanya Lokshina, of Human Rights Watch. \u201cWhile not banning foreign funding as such, they have banned specific major donors, and are pushing other foreign donors to stop their programmes in Russia due to the increasingly hostile political climate.\u201dThe National Endowment for Democracy, largely funded by the US Congress, was the first organisation to be confirmed as \u201cundesirable\u201d in July. At the same time, the MacArthur Foundation pulled out of Russia after being put on the provisional list of 12. It had been active in the country since 1992, disbursing about $172m of grants in areas including education, human rights and nuclear non-proliferation. The Open Society Institute said it would wait for a formal decision before pulling out. Now that has come, it is illegal for Russian organisations to accept its money.Separately, another law requires any Russian organisation that has a foreign source of funding to register as a \u201cforeign agent\u201d, a term reminiscent of Soviet-era propaganda. Memorial\u2019s Moscow office and a number of its regional affiliations have already been declared foreign agents by local courts.", "tags": ["Russia", "George Soros", "Human rights", "World news", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Russia bans two Soros foundations from disbursing grants"},{"date": "2015-11-24T13:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The shooting down by Turkish forces of a Russian Su-24 warplane follows rising tension between the two countries over a continuing Russian bombing campaign against ethnic Turkmen villages in north-western Syria, close to Turkey\u2019s border.It also marks the first direct clash between a Nato member and Russia\u2019s armed forces since Vladimir Putin launched his unilateral military intervention in Syria last month. Nato had already warned Russia over previous border infractions, and the US took \u201cdeconfliction\u201d steps to minimise the risk of accidental conflict.Now the Nato alliance and the US-led coalition in Iraq and Syria find themselves facing exactly the kind of unplanned but inflammatory confrontation with Moscow they had been urgently striving to avoid. Turkey has repeatedly expressed concern over the attacks on the Turkmens, a Sunni Muslim minority who many Turks regard as their kith and kin. Like the Ankara government, the Turkmens oppose the regime of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.Fighting in the Latakia governorate, in western Syria on the border with Turkey, has intensified following last month\u2019s Russian military intervention. Russian warplanes are backing an offensive by Syrian government forces, Lebanese Hezbollah and Iranian Shia Muslim units, Turkmen fighters say.Turkey summoned Russia\u2019s ambassador at the weekend to protest over the \u201cintensive\u201d bombing of the villages. Ahmet Davuto\u011flu, Turkey\u2019s prime minister, said Ankara had demanded an immediate end to Russian military operations along the border. \u201cIt was stressed that the Russian side\u2019s actions were not a fight against terror, but they bombed civilian Turkmen villages and this could lead to serious consequences,\u201d Turkey\u2019s foreign ministry said.The ministry said Turkmen villages had also been subjected to heavy bombardment by Russian planes in the Bay\u0131r-Bucak area of north-west Syria, close to Turkey\u2019s Yaylada\u011f\u0131 border crossing in Hatay province. Like the US and Britain, Turkey says Russian forces have been predominantly targeting a range of anti-Assad rebel groups inside Syria, rather than concentrating their fire on Islamic State forces. Turkey also regards the areas in north-west Syria held by the Bay\u0131r-Bucak Turkmens as an important buffer preventing the territorial expansion of Syria\u2019s Kurdish minority militias, whom it regards as terrorists linked to the Kurdistan Workers\u2019 party (PKK).Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, Turkey\u2019s president, expressed his anger at what Ankara said was a Russian incursion into Turkish airspace in October. Turkish forces recently shot down an unidentified drone along the border. Egged on by Turkey, Nato condemned as unacceptable, the Russian violations of Turkish airspace. Turkish media reports say Turkmens from 50 villages were forced to flee the Gimam area of Latakia governorate last week. There were also reports of Turkmen refugees fleeing from Syria towards Hatay province. \u00d6mer Abdullah, commander of the Turkmen Sultan Abd\u00fclhamit Brigade, called on Ankara to intervene to halt the month-long offensive, the Cihan news agency reported.\u201cWe are trying to survive under unbearable brutality and we need Turkey\u2019s help,\u201d Abdullah said. \u201cEvery day our Turkmen brothers are dying. We expect the government to support us \u2026 Why are we left alone?\u201d Abdullah said his forces were under attack from the Syrian army, Hezbollah and Iranian forces. \u201cI don\u2019t understand why our Muslim brothers remain silent. We need all kinds of support. It\u2019s impossible to survive under such heavy bombardment,\u201d he said.Turkey\u2019s National Intelligence Organisation (MIT) was accused of involvement in clandestine arms shipments to Turkmen forces earlier this year. The Cumhuriyet newspaper published a report on arms smuggling on 29 May that included images of weapons allegedly carried by trucks operated by MIT. Mehmet \u015eand\u0131r, a former Nationalist Movement party MP, told Today\u2019s Zaman newspaper that Turkmens were facing ethnic cleansing in northern Syria. \u201cTurkey has to help the Turkmens. The aid going to the Turkmens is not enough,\u201d he said. Russia\u2019s intervention on behalf of the regime in Damascus angered Erdo\u011fan, who vowed to bring down Assad after Turkish mediation efforts at the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 were rejected by Damascus. Like the US, Turkey fears Russia\u2019s involvement will complicate an already fraught situation, prolong the war, and exacerbate the refugee crisis along Turkey\u2019s border, across which more than 2 million Syrians have fled.Erdo\u011fan was said to be especially annoyed that he was not consulted about Russia\u2019s intentions during his visit to Moscow in September, when he met Putin. Turkey has a long history of tension with Russia over unresolved disputes such as Moscow\u2019s support for Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian-controlled breakaway enclave in Azerbaijan.Ottoman Turkey and tsarist Russia fought a war in 1877-78. And Stalin briefly laid claim to parts of eastern Turkey at the end of the second world war. But ties have improved in recent times, with a series of energy and trade deals. Russia is now Turkey\u2019s second-largest trading partner and 60% of its natural gas comes from Russia.Economic dependence is one powerful reason, among several, why Erdo\u011fan will not want this latest border incident to escalate into a wider confrontation \u2013 although this is something that may not be entirely within his control. \u2022 This article was amended on 26 November 2015. An earlier version referred to Turkmen refugees \u201cfleeing towards Turkey from Syria\u2019s Hatay province\u201d. The writer had intended to say that Turkmen refugees were fleeing from Syria towards Hatay province in Turkey.", "tags": ["Turkey", "Russia", "Nato", "World news", "Europe", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Turkey caught between aiding Turkmen and economic dependence on Russia"},{"date": "2015-11-16T08:41:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron has said the west is prepared to compromise with Vladimir Putin, to strike a deal to end the Syrian civil war. The prime minister insisted, however, that he and other world leaders were not being stubborn over demands that the Syrian leader, President Bashar al-Assad, step down at the end of the peace process.Cameron\u2019s hour-long bilateral meeting with the Russian president on Monday was described by British sources as \u201cconstructive\u201d and focused mainly on the Syrian peace process. Cameron stressed that all sides wanted a settlement that ended with a political regime in place as part of an planned transition.The talks came as British sources confirmed that UK security forces had foiled an Islamic State plot on British soil in the past two months, bringing the total number of thwarted attacks to seven this year.The meeting with Putin \u2013 their first face to face for a year \u2013 took place at the G20 summit of the world\u2019s leading economies in Antalya, southern Turkey. Related: Western leaders urge Putin at G20 to change course in Syria With the need to crush Isis in Syria given a fresh urgency following the terror group\u2019s claim of responsibility for killing at least 129 people in Paris, Cameron and the US president, Barack Obama, are pressing Putin to see how they can reach a compromise about Syria that protects Russian interests in the region.Cameron said: \u201cThe disagreement has been that we think Assad should go at once and Russia obviously has taken a different view and we have to find a settlement where Assad leaves and there is a government that brings the country together. But we must not allow the gap there is between us to be the altar on which the country of Syria is slaughtered. That is the challenge. That is going to take compromises.\u201dInterviewed on BBC Radio 4\u2019s Today programme, the prime minister insisted: \u201cWe are not just being stubborn here. We are not saying Assad cannot be part of the government of Syria because we said it and we are sticking to our position. It is a statement of fact rather than a statement of preference. This man has barrel-bombed his own population and slaughtered so many of his own countrymen. It is for them rather than for us that he cannot play a long-term role in running the country.\u201dOn Monday morning, before the meeting with Cameron, Putin said: \u201cThe recent tragic events in France show that we should join efforts in preventing terror. Unfortunately our bilateral relations are not of the best, but there is certain revival.\u201d Related: G20: Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin agree to Syrian-led transition The Iranians and the Russians have both said it is for the Syrian people to decide on their new leader in an election, while the Americans, French, British and Saudis argue that Assad can only stay on as part of the government on an interim basis and probably for no more than 18 months.In talks between the world powers held at the weekend in Vienna, it was agreed that the various parties in Syria needed to start talks early next year, leading to elections in 18 months.The Jordanians have been asked to decide which groups will be designated as terrorists and therefore not permitted to join the talks. No agreement about the long-term future of Assad was reached at Vienna, and there is scepticism that Putin is really willing to abandon the Syrian president after four years. The Russians have only recently started an air bombing campaign to protect Assad from military advances by rebel groups.The minimum agreement between the west and Putin may be over how to combine to attack Isis, rather than reaching a deal on Assad.Cameron said the UK had been preparing for the kind of attacks seen in Paris. But he added that the security services would be going back to the drawing board to check they were prepared for the scale of the attacks that occurred in France. He added that if British interests were at stake then \u201cwe will act and take immediate action in Syria and report to parliament afterwards\u201d.Cameron also warned that even if the Syrian conflict was resolved, the threat of extremism remained across the world, including in Africa.The British hope that the tragic downing of the Russian jet over the Sinai last month, which killed more than 200 Russian civilians, will persuade Putin to see that he and the west have a common interest in pushing Isis out of northern Syria and bringing in a newly elected government. Relations between Putin and the west have suffered over Russian support for rebels in eastern Ukraine.But Cameron has expressed such optimism before only to be disappointed and admitted \u201cthe gap between us, it is difficult. We have some profound disagreements.\u201dSpeaking before the meeting, he said: \u201cBut I will start the conversation with the thing that we agree about, which is that Isis and this radical Islamic extremism is just as much a threat, potentially more of a threat, to Russia as it is to Europe.\u201d He added Putin said as much at the G20 dinner on Sunday night.Cameron also said he still supported Britain extending airstrikes against Isis from Iraq to Syria. He said: \u201cIsis does not recognise the border between Syria and Iraq and neither should we. I need to build the argument. I need to convince more people. We won\u2019t hold that vote unless we can see parliament will endorse that action because to fail on this would be damaging not to the government but to the country and its reputation in the world. But in the end parliament must decide.\u201d", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "David Cameron", "Paris attacks", "Islamic State", "Russia", "Politics", "UK news", "G20", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Cameron: we can compromise with Russia to end Syrian war"},{"date": "2015-12-19T17:24:20Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Vladimir Putin has warned that Russia is ready to to scale up its military intervention in Syria, less than a day after Moscow signed off on an ambitious UN plan to end the war.The peace roadmap lays out a two-year path to elections for a new government, starting with a January ceasefire, and marks the first time America and Russia have reached broad consensus on Syria\u2019s future after years of conflict that has cost more than 250,000 lives and made millions more into refugees. Related: Future of Assad in doubt as UN unanimously supports Syria peace process But the pact was so broad that it sidestepped one of the biggest questions at the heart of Syria\u2019s troubles, the future of President Bashar al-Assad, and several other key issues. It was also drawn up without consulting Assad or the opposition groups fighting him on the ground.The question of whether, when and how the Syrian leader might step down will hang over any attempts to broker long-term peace. The US says he must go, while Russia has doubled down on support for him, sending bombers, weapons and cash to support his troops.\u201cHe\u2019s in control of two-thirds of the populated areas of Syria, he has not been defeated on the battlefield, he has the support of all the minorities, as well as the secular Sunnis,\u201d Peter Ford, former UK ambassador to Syria told the BBC after the deal was agreed.\u201cIts absurd to think that the Russians have come so far with this process only to throw Assad under the bus; it\u2019s not going to happen.\u201dLess than 24 hours after committing to peace in Syria, Putin himself said top commanders were ready to join the bomber pilots, support forces and other Russian troops already backing up Assad on the ground.\u201cWe see how efficiently our pilots and intelligence agents coordinate their efforts with various kinds of forces \u2013 the army, navy and aviation, how they use the most modern weapons,\u201d Reuters quoted him saying in a speech carried by local agencies.\u201cI want to stress that these are by far not all of our capabilities,\u201d he said. \u201cWe have more military means. And we will use them, if need be.\u201d The deal exposes a widening gap between concerns of world powers and Syrians themselves. Diplomats and generals from Moscow to Washington are increasingly focused on containing and ultimately destroying Isis. Syrians are generally more preoccupied with Assad\u2019s fate, whether they support their leader or bitterly oppose him.Opposition groups will not agree to a political transition that includes Assad, a senior Syrian defector representing a spectrum of opposition groups warned. Security council resolutions and a road map agreed in Geneva provide for his removal, Riad Hijab told reporters on Friday.\u201cWe are going into negotiations on this principle, we are not entering talks [based on] anything else. There will be no concession,\u201d said Hijab, who served as prime minister under Assad in 2012 before defecting.Critics point out that his bombing raids have killed many thousands more Syrian civilians than Isis, sometimes by using chemical weapons and often with cruelly indiscriminate barrel bombs. Many of the opposition fighters also spent time in his regime\u2019s jails, where torture is widespread.They also raise his apparent financial complicity with Isis, with oil purchases documented by US officials who recently condemned several firms for their role in the trade.Another senior Syrian exile who represents the main western-backed opposition group warned that the deadline for a January ceasefire was too ambitious, the Associated Press reported. Najib Ghadbian also said any agreement must include \u201cthe removal of all foreign troops from Syria\u201d, including Russians who have been running an airstrike campaign that has allowed Assad to make key advances.Assad\u2019s supporters argue that he is the only secular bulwark against an opposition increasingly dominated by Islamists. They warn that removing him now could bring even more chaos and violence, as the toppling of Muammar Gaddafi did in nearby Libya, a concern shared by Washington.Russia and the US have drawn somewhat closer after Moscow conceded that Assad might one day cede power, possibly to a close but less tainted ally, or if he is voted out in an election, while Washington stepped back from demands for his immediate removal.Kerry said \u201ceveryone\u201d had by now realised that demanding Assad\u2019s departure up front in the process was \u201cin fact, prolonging the war\u201d, adding however that differences remain and the Syrian leader could not unite his country.Iran has also promised to line up behind Moscow, in the push for a political deal to end the civil war, after Putin met Iran\u2019s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in Tehran, a senior Iranian official told Reuters.\u201cWhat was agreed was Iran and Russia will pursue one policy which will benefit Tehran, Moscow and Damascus,\u201d the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The two countries are in \u201cfull harmony over Syria and Assad\u2019s fate\u201d, a second official said.The US insistence that Assad must eventually go is backed by its European allies, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations who have long insisted that Assad must go, although there are disputes about when.Ministers from 17 nations who were in New York to build momentum for a ceasefire said they would meet again next month. Among the difficult topics on the table are which groups should be allowed into the opposition tent and which should banned as terrorists; Jordan will lead development of the list.Most parties to the conflict, from Assad to hardline opposition groups, are reliant to varying degrees on weapons, military support and cash from outside the country. Threats to withhold these should give the west and regional powers some leverage.Even if the ceasefire is embraced by many armed groups, it will not end the fighting in Syria however, as there are no expectations that Isis at least would join.", "tags": ["Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Russia", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "Bashar al-Assad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Europe", "World news", "Islamic State"], "title": "Putin says Russia ready to increase military role in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-07T00:54:01Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Britain and its allies should accept that Bashar al-Assad\u2019s forces are best placed to lead a ground assault against Islamic State in Syria because David Cameron\u2019s claims about 70,000 moderate opposition forces are \u201cexaggerated,\u201d Boris Johnson has said. Related: Syria airstrikes: everything you need to know In remarks that may be seized on by Labour opponents of the airstrikes in Syria, Johnson says that \u201cAssad and his army\u201d may be the allies\u2019 best chance of removing Isis because the 70,000 figure includes groups that are ideologically little different from al-Qaida.The prime minister faced intense pressure in the House of Commons last week after claiming that 70,000 \u201cmoderate\u201d fighters in Syria are prepared to join the UK and its allies in attacking Islamic State. Jeremy Corbyn questioned the figure as he spoke of a lack of \u201ccredible ground forces\u201d.Johnson waded into the row by saying that Britain and its allies, which cannot overthrow Isis without ground forces, cannot be picky about their allies in light of doubts over the 70,000 figure.London\u2019s mayor wrote in the Daily Telegraph: \u201cWe have the estimated 70,000 of the Free Syrian Army (and many other groups and grouplets); but those numbers may be exaggerated, and they may include some jihadists who are not ideologically very different from al-Qaida. Who else is there? The answer is obvious. There is Assad, and his army; and the recent signs are that they are making some progress.\u201dThe remarks by Johnson, who is a member of the political cabinet, are likely to irritate the prime minister who is facing cross-party questions about his claim, made last month, about the 70,000 opposition fighters. The prime minister told MPs: \u201cWe believe that there are around 70,000 Syrian opposition fighters, principally of the Free Syrian Army, who do not belong to extremist groups, and with whom we can coordinate attacks on Isil [Isis].\u201dJulian Lewis, the Conservative chairman of the Commons defence select committee, has led the charge against the 70,000 figure on the grounds that it is likely to include Islamist fundamentalists who will not be minded to help allied countries. Lewis told the Commons last week: \u201cInstead of having dodgy dossiers we now have bogus battalions of moderate fighters.\u201dIn his article, Johnson challenged Downing Street to acknowledge that Isis would only be defeated if the allies join forces with Assad and President Vladimir Putin. Highlighting the news that Assad\u2019s forces are close to the historic centre of Palmyra, he writes: \u201cAm I backing the Assad regime, and the Russians, in their joint enterprise to recapture that amazing site? You bet I am. That does not mean I trust Putin, and it does not mean that I want to keep Assad in power indefinitely. But we cannot suck and blow at once.\u201dJohnson backed up his argument by citing Winston Churchill\u2019s reaction to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. \u201cWhen Hitler invaded the Soviet Union, Churchill decided to qualify his lifelong hatred of communism. \u2018If Hitler invaded Hell,\u2019 said Churchill in 1941, \u2018I would make at least a favourable reference to the Devil in the House of Commons.\u2019 And as he foresaw, it was the Russians who did the most to help us win the war.\u201d", "tags": ["Boris Johnson", "Syria", "Politics", "David Cameron", "Middle East and North Africa", "Islamic State", "World news", "Daily Telegraph", "Media", "UK news", "National newspapers"], "title": "Boris Johnson: allies should join Assad and Russia against Isis"},{"date": "2015-12-02T21:51:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Although Turkey may have replaced the US as Russia\u2019s rhetorical enemy No 1, the animations playing on the giant screens in Moscow\u2019s new \u201cwar room\u201d complex hadn\u2019t yet been updated: they still featured the glowing red outline of North America under laser-like lines that seemed to suggest crosshairs.But an unexpected defence ministry briefing on Wednesday \u2013 the first such event for foreign media in recent memory \u2013 left no doubt who was in Russia\u2019s sights. Sitting beneath the main screen, which now showed satellite images of the Turkish-Syrian border, the deputy defence minister, Anatoly Antonov, accused Turkey of buying oil from Islamic State (Isis), and claimed the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, was personally involved in this \u201ccriminal business\u201d.\u201cA unified team of bandits and Turkish elites operates in the region to steal oil from their neighbours [Iraq and Syria],\u201d Antonov said. \u201cThis oil reaches Turkish territory in huge, industrial amounts through living oil pipelines of thousands of tanker trucks.\u201d The trade provided terrorists with $2bn (\u00a31.3bn) in revenues each year.Later, Erdo\u011fan responded by saying: \u201cNobody has the right to slander Turkey by saying Turkey is buying Daesh [Isis] oil.\u201d Related: Turks in Russia hit by Putin's 'serious consequences' after downing of warplane Besides the oil-buying accusations, Wednesday\u2019s briefing also showcased the national defence control centre, a new facility in the defence ministry compound across the Moskva river from Gorky Park that has been compared to a villain\u2019s lair from a spy thriller. Although it officially opened in December 2014 as part of a multibillion-rouble revamp of the military, the control centre made its major debut last month, when state television showed the president, Vladimir Putin, being informed about the progress of the Russian-Syrian military campaign against \u201cterrorists\u201d in Syria. The briefing room used was clearly meant to impress with three tiers of seating, at least 100 uniformed men seated behind computers and huge screens of maps and graphics.A main command hub during wartime, the control centre also includes a room with concentric circles of chairs for more intimate \u2013 but still grandiose \u2013 meetings, as well as command stations and an auditorium for press conferences. Access is via a guarded gate where men in body armour check each vehicle, or a helicopter pad on the riverfront.Turkey has been receiving negative coverage on state television since it shot down a Russian military jet that Ankara said had violated its airspace, a charge Russia has denied. Dozens of foreign military attaches also attended what some said was the first such briefing in months, although those of the US and Britain were not noticeable.Asked whether the briefing was connected to the recent tensions with Turkey, a defence ministry spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, would only say it had been called because there was interest in the topic and had been planned several days in advance. But much of the satellite imagery dated from as far back as August, even though it had not previously been presented.Antonov and other officials said at least 8,500 tankers transport up to 200,000 tonnes of oil a day from Isis-controlled areas in Syria and Iraq to Turkey, where it is sold for local use or transported on.But the only indication of Erdo\u011fan\u2019s participation in the trade was Antonov\u2019s claim that the Turkish president\u2019s son was the head of a large energy company. He appeared to be referring to the president\u2019s son-in-law, Berat Albayrak, who previously ran the energy firm \u00c7al\u0131k Holding and was appointed energy minister in November.Sergei Rudskoi, the deputy chief of staff, said Russian airstrikes had reduced Isis\u2019s oil income from $3m to $1.5m a day, complaining that Moscow had not \u201cobserved strikes on columns of tanker trucks from the coalition\u201d led by the US.A German military attache who declined to provide his name said the findings of Isis oil flowing to Turkey were \u201cnot really new\u201d but admitted he had not seen such evidence \u201cin this form\u201d.\u201cWe have no chance to check it at this time, but we will check,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia steps up hostility against Turkey with war room briefing"},{"date": "2015-11-26T18:08:49Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has announced that it will impose import sanctions on Turkey and cancel major investment projects as the spat between the two countries over the downed Su-24 fighter jet continues.The Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev, said broad punitive steps could include halting joint economic projects, restricting financial and trade transactions and changing customs duties. There were calls to ban imports of all Turkish produce, while in the city of Krasnodar, dozens of Turkish workers were rounded up and arrested for visa violations.Already, the country\u2019s tourist board has suspended all tours to Turkey, a move that it estimated would cost the Turkish economy $10bn (\u00a36.6bn). Russia also said it was suspending all military cooperation with Turkey, including closing down an emergency hotline to share information on Russian airstrikes in Syria. Related: Why did it take Turkey just 17 seconds to shoot down Russian jet? Putin accused Turkey of deliberately trying to bring relations between Moscow and Ankara to a standstill, adding that Moscow was still awaiting an apology or an offer of reimbursement for damages. He earlier called the act a \u201cstab in the back by the accomplices of terrorists\u201d and promised \u201cserious consequences\u201d.World leaders have urged both sides to avoid escalation. In an apparent attempt to cool the dispute \u2013 and appeal to western countries \u2013 Turkish prime minister Ahmet Davutoglu said in a letter to Britain\u2019s Times newspaper that Ankara would work with its allies and Russia to \u201ccalm tensions\u201d. For two days, Russian officials have fumed over the incident and demanded an apology, while the Russian ambassador in Ankara was summoned in response to the Turkish embassy in Moscow being pelted with eggs and stones. If Moscow expected to hear grovelling from Ankara, an apology was not forthcoming. The Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, told CNN that Russia, not Turkey, should be apologising, and in a speech to local officials in Ankara dismissed as \u201cemotional\u201d and \u201cunfitting\u201d Russian suggestions that joint projects could be cancelled.In response to Russian accusations that Turkey has been buying oil and gas from Islamic State in Syria, Erdo\u011fan said: \u201cShame on you. It\u2019s clear where Turkey buys its oil and gas ... Those who claim we are buying oil from Daesh [an Arabic acronym for Isis] like this must prove their claims. Nobody can slander this country.\u201dRussia has insisted that its plane never strayed from Syrian airspace, while Turkey says it crossed into its airspace for 17 seconds. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, said that even if this was the case, shooting the plane down was an extreme over-reaction and looked like a pre-planned provocation.The plane\u2019s pilot and a marine sent on a rescue mission died. The surviving navigator claimed in an interview with Russian television that he received no audio or visual warning before the plane was shot down. The Turks have released audio recordings of what they say are radio warnings issued to the plane.The Russia-Turkey spat makes work harder for Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who held talks with Putin as part of a diplomatic marathon aimed at building a wide-ranging coalition to launch airstrikes against Isis. \u201cI\u2019m in Moscow with you to figure out how we can act together in order to coordinate our actions in order to hit this terrorist group and look for political solutions for Syria,\u201d said Hollande in televised comments before the two presidents retired for talks.Putin expressed his condolences over the Paris attacks earlier this month: \u201cOur positions are the same. Russia has been the target of terrorist attacks for a long time. So we empathise with you, we know how you feel, how the people of France feel.\u201dHollande and Putin met in the Kremlin late on Thursday. The meeting was more cordial than recent surly encounters over Ukraine, with Hollande referring to his counterpart as \u201cmon cher Vladimir\u201d, but appeared to yield little in the way of real progress.As it has done for years, the issue of Bashar al-Assad\u2019s fate still divides Moscow and most western capitals. Hollande said Assad \u201chas no place\u201d in a future Syria while Putin said the Syrian president had to be considered an ally.\u201cTo successfully fight terrorism in Syria is impossible without ground operations, and there is no force in Syria which could take part in ground operations except Assad\u2019s army. So I think Assad himself and his army is a necessary ally in the fight against terror,\u201d he said.Putin said he would prefer a broad coalition to fight Isis under a UN mandate, presumably with Assad\u2019s backing, but conceded \u201cour partners are not ready for this\u201d. He said Russia would work with the US-led coalition where possible, but added that any further incidents such as the Turkish shoot-down of a Russian fighter jet on Tuesday were \u201cabsolutely unacceptable\u201d. Hollande said that the two leaders had agreed on better intelligence coordination and exchange. Related: France's anti-Isis coalition: where the key countries stand Moscow has been carrying out airstrikes in Syria for nearly two months, which western capitals say are aimed less at fighting Isis and more at propping up the Assad regime. Putin has said the best way to defeat Isis is to support the \u201clegitimate government\u201d of Assad and not to allow the institutions of state to crumble, as in Iraq and Libya..Hollande met Barack Obama in Washington on Tuesday and Matteo Renzi, the Italian prime minister, in Paris earlier on Thursday. He met David Cameron on Monday and Angela Merkel on Wednesday.In Britain, a vote of MPs is due next week on the extension of airstrikes from Iraq to Syria. On Monday Cameron told Hollande that France could use a British airbase in Cyprus to fly missions against Isis.Germany\u2019s defence spokesman said Tornado reconnaissance jets would be sent to support the fight against Isis in Syria. Henning Otte said Germany would play a more active role, a day after Merkel told Hollande she would act swiftly to work out how her country could offer more support. ", "tags": ["Russia", "Turkey", "Islamic State", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Vladimir Putin", "Syria", "France", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Russia imposes sanctions on Turkey over downed plane"},{"date": "2015-11-30T15:02:42Z", "country": "russia", "content": "Russia has branded foundations run by the financier George Soros a threat to the country\u2019s constitutional order, and banned them from disbursing grants to Russian partners.The Open Society Foundation and the Open Society Institute\u2019s Assistance Foundation, both financed by Soros, are the latest additions to a list of \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d, a list the government says is necessary to stop foreign governments from interfering in Russia\u2019s internal affairs. The two are accused of posing a threat to Russia\u2019s constitutional order and national security.Supporters say such organisations provide crucial funding for human rights and civil society organisations that Russian donors would not risk supporting, and blast the laws on which the ban is based as a sign of an increasing government crackdown and paranoia.Russia\u2019s parliament passed the law on \u201cundesirable organisations\u201d in May, and two months later the upper house sent the prosecutor\u2019s office a list of 12 international organisations it wanted to see added to the list, including the two Soros foundations. At the time, parliamentarian Konstantin Kosachev said the organisations on the list \u201ccriticise Russia at any chance and are trying to gain external control over the situation in our country and over our people\u201d.Soros has long been a controversial figure in Russia because of his financing of civil society groups active in protest movements. He is often referred to as a kind of puppet master, directing \u201ccoloured revolutions\u201d in post-Soviet states. However, organisations which had received grants from Soros said this characterisation was inaccurate.\u201cI think this is a deeply unfair decision, although of course it was predictable in the current climate,\u201d said Arseny Roginsky, of Memorial, an organisation working on preserving historical memory, which has received grants from Soros for a number of years. \u201cSoros has done much good for Russia ever since the 1990s, supporting education and science as well as civil society. The organisation should be thanked, not banned. But those are the times we live in.\u201dThe foundations closed their offices in Russia in 2003 but continued to disburse grants to a number of civil society groups.\u201cThe authorities are using the law on \u2018undesirable organisations\u2019 to squeeze the life out of Russian civil society,\u201d said Tanya Lokshina, of Human Rights Watch. \u201cWhile not banning foreign funding as such, they have banned specific major donors, and are pushing other foreign donors to stop their programmes in Russia due to the increasingly hostile political climate.\u201dThe National Endowment for Democracy, largely funded by the US Congress, was the first organisation to be confirmed as \u201cundesirable\u201d in July. At the same time, the MacArthur Foundation pulled out of Russia after being put on the provisional list of 12. It had been active in the country since 1992, disbursing about $172m of grants in areas including education, human rights and nuclear non-proliferation. The Open Society Institute said it would wait for a formal decision before pulling out. Now that has come, it is illegal for Russian organisations to accept its money.Separately, another law requires any Russian organisation that has a foreign source of funding to register as a \u201cforeign agent\u201d, a term reminiscent of Soviet-era propaganda. Memorial\u2019s Moscow office and a number of its regional affiliations have already been declared foreign agents by local courts.", "tags": ["Russia", "George Soros", "Human rights", "World news", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Russia bans two Soros foundations from disbursing grants"},{"date": "2015-11-24T13:00:22Z", "country": "russia", "content": "The shooting down by Turkish forces of a Russian Su-24 warplane follows rising tension between the two countries over a continuing Russian bombing campaign against ethnic Turkmen villages in north-western Syria, close to Turkey\u2019s border.It also marks the first direct clash between a Nato member and Russia\u2019s armed forces since Vladimir Putin launched his unilateral military intervention in Syria last month. Nato had already warned Russia over previous border infractions, and the US took \u201cdeconfliction\u201d steps to minimise the risk of accidental conflict.Now the Nato alliance and the US-led coalition in Iraq and Syria find themselves facing exactly the kind of unplanned but inflammatory confrontation with Moscow they had been urgently striving to avoid. Turkey has repeatedly expressed concern over the attacks on the Turkmens, a Sunni Muslim minority who many Turks regard as their kith and kin. Like the Ankara government, the Turkmens oppose the regime of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.Fighting in the Latakia governorate, in western Syria on the border with Turkey, has intensified following last month\u2019s Russian military intervention. Russian warplanes are backing an offensive by Syrian government forces, Lebanese Hezbollah and Iranian Shia Muslim units, Turkmen fighters say.Turkey summoned Russia\u2019s ambassador at the weekend to protest over the \u201cintensive\u201d bombing of the villages. Ahmet Davuto\u011flu, Turkey\u2019s prime minister, said Ankara had demanded an immediate end to Russian military operations along the border. \u201cIt was stressed that the Russian side\u2019s actions were not a fight against terror, but they bombed civilian Turkmen villages and this could lead to serious consequences,\u201d Turkey\u2019s foreign ministry said.The ministry said Turkmen villages had also been subjected to heavy bombardment by Russian planes in the Bay\u0131r-Bucak area of north-west Syria, close to Turkey\u2019s Yaylada\u011f\u0131 border crossing in Hatay province. Like the US and Britain, Turkey says Russian forces have been predominantly targeting a range of anti-Assad rebel groups inside Syria, rather than concentrating their fire on Islamic State forces. Turkey also regards the areas in north-west Syria held by the Bay\u0131r-Bucak Turkmens as an important buffer preventing the territorial expansion of Syria\u2019s Kurdish minority militias, whom it regards as terrorists linked to the Kurdistan Workers\u2019 party (PKK).Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan, Turkey\u2019s president, expressed his anger at what Ankara said was a Russian incursion into Turkish airspace in October. Turkish forces recently shot down an unidentified drone along the border. Egged on by Turkey, Nato condemned as unacceptable, the Russian violations of Turkish airspace. Turkish media reports say Turkmens from 50 villages were forced to flee the Gimam area of Latakia governorate last week. There were also reports of Turkmen refugees fleeing from Syria towards Hatay province. \u00d6mer Abdullah, commander of the Turkmen Sultan Abd\u00fclhamit Brigade, called on Ankara to intervene to halt the month-long offensive, the Cihan news agency reported.\u201cWe are trying to survive under unbearable brutality and we need Turkey\u2019s help,\u201d Abdullah said. \u201cEvery day our Turkmen brothers are dying. We expect the government to support us \u2026 Why are we left alone?\u201d Abdullah said his forces were under attack from the Syrian army, Hezbollah and Iranian forces. \u201cI don\u2019t understand why our Muslim brothers remain silent. We need all kinds of support. It\u2019s impossible to survive under such heavy bombardment,\u201d he said.Turkey\u2019s National Intelligence Organisation (MIT) was accused of involvement in clandestine arms shipments to Turkmen forces earlier this year. The Cumhuriyet newspaper published a report on arms smuggling on 29 May that included images of weapons allegedly carried by trucks operated by MIT. Mehmet \u015eand\u0131r, a former Nationalist Movement party MP, told Today\u2019s Zaman newspaper that Turkmens were facing ethnic cleansing in northern Syria. \u201cTurkey has to help the Turkmens. The aid going to the Turkmens is not enough,\u201d he said. Russia\u2019s intervention on behalf of the regime in Damascus angered Erdo\u011fan, who vowed to bring down Assad after Turkish mediation efforts at the outbreak of the civil war in 2011 were rejected by Damascus. Like the US, Turkey fears Russia\u2019s involvement will complicate an already fraught situation, prolong the war, and exacerbate the refugee crisis along Turkey\u2019s border, across which more than 2 million Syrians have fled.Erdo\u011fan was said to be especially annoyed that he was not consulted about Russia\u2019s intentions during his visit to Moscow in September, when he met Putin. Turkey has a long history of tension with Russia over unresolved disputes such as Moscow\u2019s support for Nagorno-Karabakh, the Armenian-controlled breakaway enclave in Azerbaijan.Ottoman Turkey and tsarist Russia fought a war in 1877-78. And Stalin briefly laid claim to parts of eastern Turkey at the end of the second world war. But ties have improved in recent times, with a series of energy and trade deals. Russia is now Turkey\u2019s second-largest trading partner and 60% of its natural gas comes from Russia.Economic dependence is one powerful reason, among several, why Erdo\u011fan will not want this latest border incident to escalate into a wider confrontation \u2013 although this is something that may not be entirely within his control. \u2022 This article was amended on 26 November 2015. An earlier version referred to Turkmen refugees \u201cfleeing towards Turkey from Syria\u2019s Hatay province\u201d. The writer had intended to say that Turkmen refugees were fleeing from Syria towards Hatay province in Turkey.", "tags": ["Turkey", "Russia", "Nato", "World news", "Europe", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Turkey caught between aiding Turkmen and economic dependence on Russia"},{"date": "2015-11-16T08:41:17Z", "country": "russia", "content": "David Cameron has said the west is prepared to compromise with Vladimir Putin, to strike a deal to end the Syrian civil war. The prime minister insisted, however, that he and other world leaders were not being stubborn over demands that the Syrian leader, President Bashar al-Assad, step down at the end of the peace process.Cameron\u2019s hour-long bilateral meeting with the Russian president on Monday was described by British sources as \u201cconstructive\u201d and focused mainly on the Syrian peace process. Cameron stressed that all sides wanted a settlement that ended with a political regime in place as part of an planned transition.The talks came as British sources confirmed that UK security forces had foiled an Islamic State plot on British soil in the past two months, bringing the total number of thwarted attacks to seven this year.The meeting with Putin \u2013 their first face to face for a year \u2013 took place at the G20 summit of the world\u2019s leading economies in Antalya, southern Turkey. Related: Western leaders urge Putin at G20 to change course in Syria With the need to crush Isis in Syria given a fresh urgency following the terror group\u2019s claim of responsibility for killing at least 129 people in Paris, Cameron and the US president, Barack Obama, are pressing Putin to see how they can reach a compromise about Syria that protects Russian interests in the region.Cameron said: \u201cThe disagreement has been that we think Assad should go at once and Russia obviously has taken a different view and we have to find a settlement where Assad leaves and there is a government that brings the country together. But we must not allow the gap there is between us to be the altar on which the country of Syria is slaughtered. That is the challenge. That is going to take compromises.\u201dInterviewed on BBC Radio 4\u2019s Today programme, the prime minister insisted: \u201cWe are not just being stubborn here. We are not saying Assad cannot be part of the government of Syria because we said it and we are sticking to our position. It is a statement of fact rather than a statement of preference. This man has barrel-bombed his own population and slaughtered so many of his own countrymen. It is for them rather than for us that he cannot play a long-term role in running the country.\u201dOn Monday morning, before the meeting with Cameron, Putin said: \u201cThe recent tragic events in France show that we should join efforts in preventing terror. Unfortunately our bilateral relations are not of the best, but there is certain revival.\u201d Related: G20: Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin agree to Syrian-led transition The Iranians and the Russians have both said it is for the Syrian people to decide on their new leader in an election, while the Americans, French, British and Saudis argue that Assad can only stay on as part of the government on an interim basis and probably for no more than 18 months.In talks between the world powers held at the weekend in Vienna, it was agreed that the various parties in Syria needed to start talks early next year, leading to elections in 18 months.The Jordanians have been asked to decide which groups will be designated as terrorists and therefore not permitted to join the talks. No agreement about the long-term future of Assad was reached at Vienna, and there is scepticism that Putin is really willing to abandon the Syrian president after four years. The Russians have only recently started an air bombing campaign to protect Assad from military advances by rebel groups.The minimum agreement between the west and Putin may be over how to combine to attack Isis, rather than reaching a deal on Assad.Cameron said the UK had been preparing for the kind of attacks seen in Paris. But he added that the security services would be going back to the drawing board to check they were prepared for the scale of the attacks that occurred in France. He added that if British interests were at stake then \u201cwe will act and take immediate action in Syria and report to parliament afterwards\u201d.Cameron also warned that even if the Syrian conflict was resolved, the threat of extremism remained across the world, including in Africa.The British hope that the tragic downing of the Russian jet over the Sinai last month, which killed more than 200 Russian civilians, will persuade Putin to see that he and the west have a common interest in pushing Isis out of northern Syria and bringing in a newly elected government. Relations between Putin and the west have suffered over Russian support for rebels in eastern Ukraine.But Cameron has expressed such optimism before only to be disappointed and admitted \u201cthe gap between us, it is difficult. We have some profound disagreements.\u201dSpeaking before the meeting, he said: \u201cBut I will start the conversation with the thing that we agree about, which is that Isis and this radical Islamic extremism is just as much a threat, potentially more of a threat, to Russia as it is to Europe.\u201d He added Putin said as much at the G20 dinner on Sunday night.Cameron also said he still supported Britain extending airstrikes against Isis from Iraq to Syria. He said: \u201cIsis does not recognise the border between Syria and Iraq and neither should we. I need to build the argument. I need to convince more people. We won\u2019t hold that vote unless we can see parliament will endorse that action because to fail on this would be damaging not to the government but to the country and its reputation in the world. But in the end parliament must decide.\u201d", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Syria", "Vladimir Putin", "David Cameron", "Paris attacks", "Islamic State", "Russia", "Politics", "UK news", "G20", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Cameron: we can compromise with Russia to end Syrian war"},{"date": "2015-11-19T19:31:12Z", "country": "russia", "content": "An even earlier example of the \u201cold-school-tie brigade in knots over Russia\u201d (Letters, 19 November) is that of Arthur Ransome, who reported the Russian revolution for the Daily News. With the MI6 code name S76, he shared a flat with the Bolshevik chief of propaganda but attracted the attention of the establishment by his opposition to allied intervention in the Russian civil war.On his return to London he was detained and questioned by MI5 on suspicion of treason. After the war he went back to Moscow as a reporter for the Manchester Guardian and, once married to Trotsky\u2019s personal secretary Evgenia Petrovna Shepelina, returned to England to live a double life as Guardian correspondent and author of Swallows and Amazons, no doubt remaining under surveillance the while.Austen LynchGarstang, Lancashire\u2022 Join the debate \u2013 email guardian.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Russia", "Arthur Ransome", "Europe", "World news", "Books", "MI5", "UK news", "MI6"], "title": "When Arthur Ransome rocked the boat over Russia | Letters"},